[1]  The Truth Concerning the Ultimate Goal of God s Economy INTRODUCTION
[2]  Recently, someone who identified himself as J. S. published a false and slanderous article concerning Brother Witness Lee s teaching.
[3]  The article was entitled, The Worst Blasphemous Words of Witness Lee against God.
[4]  Athanasius, one of the early church fathers, said concerning Christ, He was made man that we might be made God, and The Word was made flesh...that we, partaking of His Spirit, might be deified.
[5]  Revelation 4 tells us that God looks like jasper v. 3 . Then Revelation 21 says that the entire New Jerusalem has the appearance of jasper v. 11 . Thus, God s redeemed people have become absolutely the very God in life, in nature, and in appearance, but not in His Godhead....All of God s redeemed people will eventually become gods as the very God in life, in nature, and in appearance but not in the Godhead.
[6]  Then when this wonderful Spirit enters into God s chosen and redeemed people, they begin to pass through a wonderful process of becoming God in life and nature but not in the Godhead.
[7]  J. S. s Misrepresentation of Brother Lee s Teaching
[8]  Stated succinctly, J. S. charges Brother Lee with espousing and propagating the greatest and worst blasphemous heresy, the devilish heresy that man will become god or God . As quoted in the foregoing section, Brother Lee clearly and emphatically teaches that the Godhead is unique and that He is the only One who should be worshipped.
[9]  Recall Brother Lee s balanced word that, on the one hand, the New Testament reveals that the Godhead is unique and that only God, who alone has the Godhead, should be worshipped and that, on the other hand, the New Testament reveals that we, the believers in Christ, have God s life and nature and that we are becoming God in life and in nature but will never have the Godhead emphasis added .
[10]  Instead of recognizing and acknowledging Brother Lee s clear and emphatic distinction between man becoming God in life and in nature and man becoming God in having the Godhead or as an object of worship, J. S. uses or misuses Brother Lee s words to create the impression that Brother Lee teaches that in being made God in life and in nature the believers also become God in the sense of having the unique Godhead and of being an object of worship.
[11]  J. S. s Use of the Scriptures to Attack
[12]  J. S. s quotation here indicates that he is still occupied with the same false accusation the base yet baseless charge that Brother Lee claims that the believers become God in the sense of having the Godhead and of being an object of worship.
[13]  At the end of The Worst Blasphemous Words..., J. S. says, May the Lord save us from adding anything to the scriptures.
[14]  However, regarding J. S. there is reason for concern that, in principle, by denying a crucial aspect of the divine revelation in the Bible the truth that God intends for the believers in Christ to become God in life and in nature but not in the Godhead and not as an object of worship J. S. is taking away from the Scriptures something most precious to God.
[15]  Nevertheless, if we have an intrinsic view of the writings of Paul, John, and Peter, we will realize that these apostles certainly did teach that the believers in Christ, having been born of God to be His children possessing the divine life and nature, may, in fact eventually will, become God in life, nature, and expression.
[16]  Further, we are one spirit with the Lord 1 Cor 6:17 ; we live a life of coinherence with Him John 15:4; 1 John 4:15 ; we partake of the divine nature 2 Pet 1:4 ; we are being transformed into the Lord s image 2 Cor 3:18 ; we will be conformed to the image of the firstborn Son of God Rom 8:29 ; and for eternity we will be the same as God in expression as well as in life and in nature Rev 4:3; 21:10-11 .
[17]  Does J. S. see it? Does he believe it? Does he agree with God s way of carrying it out, the way of mingling divinity with humanity? There is reason to suspect that in The Worst Blasphemous Words... J. S. is not only falsely accusing and attacking Brother Lee but may also be tampering with the divine enterprise in the divine economy the dispensing of the processed Triune God into the believers to make them God in life and in nature but not in the Godhead for the producing of the New Jerusalem as the ultimate, consummate corporate expression of the Triune God for eternity in the new heaven and new earth.
[18]  We conclude this section with a reference to Brother Lee s illustration of the diamond in the box taken from the Life-study of 1 and 2 Samuel pp.
[19]  J. S. s complaint is actually twofold: 1 Psalm 82:6 and John 10:34 should not be used to support the teaching that man becomes God in God s salvation, and 2 the teaching itself that man becomes God in God s salvation is heretical.
[20]  J. S. claims that to use Psalm 82:6 to teach that we can become gods is to pervert the word of God and to teach the greatest and worst blasphemous heresy and that it is altogether nonsense and darkness to use John 10:34 to teach that men may become God.
[21]  Perhaps what comes to mind most commonly when people hear the term deification is the practice among the ancient pagan religions of elevating mere men to the status of gods.
[22]  This contrasts with what the Bible says about God s redeemed, regenerated, and transformed people, who not only gain the status of being the sons of God but, more importantly, experience a change in life and nature that gives an essential reality to their being the sons of God.
[23]  Hence, in the teaching of the early church, only the Triune God Himself is God by virtue of what He is in Himself; we believers are God only by virtue of what we have received, by virtue of our union with God.
[24]  For the Son of God became man so that we might become God St. Athanasius, De inc. 54, 3 . The only-begotten Son of God, wanting to make us sharers in his divinity, assumed our nature, so that he, made man, might make men gods St. Thomas Aquinas, Opusc.
