[1]  CONTENTS Its Stress Christian Perfection 1 Its Stress Christian Perfection 2 The Mistake of James Its Lacks 1 Its Lacks 2 Its Vague Vision, the Side Effects of James's Teaching, the Tragic Issues of James's Mistake, and the Wiping Out by God A Critical Word to the Study of the Epistle of James PREFACE
[2]  This book is composed of messages given by Brother Witness Lee in Anaheim, California from April 26 through June 14, 1995.
[3]  of the Epistle of James Message One Its Stress Christian Perfection 1 Scripture Reading: James 1:1 OUTLINE The virtues of Christian perfection stressed by James: Counting it all joy whenever falling into trial and enduring it by faith with the hope of receiving the promised crown of life 1:2-4, 12.
[4]  Resisting the temptation which draws the believers away and entices the believers by their own lusts by all good giving and every perfect gift from the Father of lights and by the virtue of being begotten by God with the word of truth to be the firstfruits of His creatures 1:13-18.
[5]  Having no respect of persons by not dishonoring the poor, who are the heirs of the kingdom promised by God to His lovers, and by not regarding the rich, who oppress the believers and drag them to the courts and blaspheme the honorable name by which the believers are called; and loving one's neighbors as oneself to fulfill the royal law according to the Scripture that he may not be judged by the law of freedom without mercy 2:1-13.
[6]  By the leading of the Lord, we decided to have the crystallization-study of the Epistle of James.
[7]  First, we have to receive in meekness God's word implanted in us.
[8]  G. Being Justified by Works, Not by Dead Faith,
[9]  THE ITEMS LISTED ABOVE IMPLY: A. The Factors of Which the Christian Perfection
[10]  The seventh and final factor of which the Christian perfection stressed by James is produced is the grace given by God 4:6 .
[11]  James also speaks of the law as a major means of Christian perfection 1:25; 2:8-12; 4:11 .
[12]  Probably the Cultivation of Man's Natural "Bright Virtue" Created by God,
[13]  of the Epistle of James Message Two Its Stress Christian Perfection 2 Scripture Reading: James 1:1 OUTLINE The genuine Christian perfection revealed in the entire divine revelation of the New Testament: The factors of which the genuine Christian perfection Christian living is brought forth: The processed and consummated Triune God Matt 28:19; John 14:8-11, 16-20; 2 Cor 13:14.
[14]  The consummated, compounded, all-inclusive, life-giving, indwelling, sevenfold Spirit of Jesus Christ Exo 30:23-25; 1 Cor 15:45b; Rom 8:11; Rev 1:4; 4:5; 5:6; Phil 1:19 , who was not yet before the resurrection of Christ John 7:38-39 .
[15]  The genuine Christian perfection builds up the Body of Christ Eph 4:12, 16 .
[16]  of the Epistle of James Message Three The Mistake of James Scripture Reading: James 1:18, 25; 2:8, 10-12; 4:11
[17]  James 4:11 says, "Do not speak against one another, brothers.
[18]  He who speaks against a brother or judges his brother speaks against the law and judges the law.
[19]  Even Peter made a mistake by putting Moses and Elijah on the same level as Christ.
[20]  When the Lord Jesus was transfigured on the mount, Peter said, "Lord, it is good for us to be here; if You are willing, I will make three tents here, one for You and one for Moses and one for Elijah" Matt 17:4 .
[21]  We need to see that God inspired James to write the Epistle of James with a purpose.
[22]  of the Epistle of James Message Four Its Lacks 1 Scripture Reading: 1 Cor 2:11-15 OUTLINE The genuine Christian perfection is not only for living a pious life but mainly for fulfilling God's New Testament economy to make the believers God-men for the constitution of the Body of Christ that the New Jerusalem may be consummated as the eternal enlargement and expression of the consummated Triune God: Although James mentions God's begetting of the believers to make them the firstfruits of all His creatures 1:18 and the Spirit's indwelling of the believers 4:5 , his application is only on the negative side for the resisting of temptations and for the dealing with pleasures, the world, and the devil.
[23]  But in the New Testament whenever God's economy is mentioned, its application is always on the positive side for the heading up of all things in Christ Eph 1:10 , for the ministering of the unsearchable riches of Christ to God's chosen people for the producing of the church Eph 3:8-10 , and for the unique teaching of the New Testament, the stress and the center of which are Christ, the church as the organic Body of Christ, and the New Jerusalem as the consummation of God's eternal economy 1 Tim 1:3-4 .
[24]  James does not say a word concerning the cross of Christ, but the New Testament teaching strongly emphasizes the cross of Christ: The Lord said that anyone who wants to follow Him should deny himself his soul and take up his cross, indicating that the self or the soul of the Lord's followers should be denied by being crucified with Him that they could live not by themselves but by Christ as their life Matt 16:24-25.
[25]  Paul said, "I am crucified with Christ; and it is no longer I who live, but it is Christ who lives in me," indicating that the old "I" of the believers has been crucified, crossed out; in the Christian life it should no longer be their old crucified "I" that lives but Christ who lives in them Gal 2:20.
[26]  In this message we want to begin to see the lacks in the Epistle of James.
[27]  In the light of the divine revelation referred to above, the cross of Christ is the greatest lack of James.
[28]  The Christian perfection in James leads to self-cultivation, but Paul said that he had been crucified with Christ and was being conformed to the death of Christ by the power of His resurrection.
[29]  Christ is the life of the believers Col 3:4 , who is revealed into the believers Gal 1:16 , who lives in and with the believers Gal 2:20 , who is formed in the believers Gal 4:19 , who makes His home in the believers Eph 3:17 , to the glorious image of whom as the firstborn Son of God the believers as the many sons of God are transformed 2 Cor 3:18; Rom 8:29 , and whom the believers live and magnify through the bountiful supply of His Spirit Phil 1:19-21 .
[30]  James mentions the Spirit of God only once as the indwelling Spirit in us 4:5 ; in the whole book there is no indication of the Spirit of God as five marvelous items: the life-giving Spirit, the compound Spirit, the Spirit of Jesus Christ, the Lord Spirit, and the sevenfold intensified Spirit.
[31]  The compound Spirit compounded with Christ's divinity, humanity, death with its effectiveness, and resurrection with its power is the anointing ointment to sanctify all the people, matters, and things in the service of God Exo 30:23-28; 1 John 2:20, 27 .
[32]  Philippians 1:19-21 reveals the all-inclusive Spirit as the Spirit of Jesus Christ with His bountiful supply through which the believers live Christ and magnify Christ.
[33]  But what the Lord's recovery has seen and picked up from the New Testament is so high, concerning God's eternal economy, the all-inclusive God processed and consummated, the all-inclusive Christ, the life-giving compound Spirit, the divine eternal life, and the church as the Body of Christ.
[34]  This mystical Body of Christ consummates in the New Jerusalem.
[35]  of the Epistle of James Message Five Its Lacks 2 Scripture Reading: 1 Cor 2:11-15 OUTLINE Although James tells us that God brought us forth by the word of truth, he does not stress the divine life with which God has brought us forth in regeneration as the New Testament does: The Lord Jesus told us that He has come that we may have life and may have it abundantly and that He is life to us John 10:10; 11:25; 14:6.
[36]  In the previous message, we saw four lacks in the Epistle of James.
[37]  The first lack is the economy of God which is for the building up of the Body of Christ as the organism of the Triune God consummating in the New Jerusalem.
[38]  God has given the sinners repentance unto life Acts 11:18 .
[39]  The Epistle of James, as a book stressing Christian perfection, only refers to the divine life in speaking of the crown of life as a reward promised by God to His lovers 1:12 but does not speak anything concerning the divine life to be the believers' life for their spiritual existence and the divine life's capacity and function.
[40]  James mentions the church only once, charging the sick members of the church to ask the elders of the church to pray for healing 5:14 , but he does not speak a bit concerning the church as the organic Body of Christ as the organism of the Triune God Eph 1:22-23; 4:4-6 , which is the center and goal of God's eternal economy Eph 3:9-11 and which will consummate in the New Jerusalem Rev 21 22 .
[41]  Without seeing a clear vision of God's eternal economy, without the all-inclusive Christ, without the all-inclusive Spirit, without the divine life that enables us even to reign over the things which are against God, without the all-inclusive power of the resurrection of Christ, and without the all-terminating cross of Christ, there is no possibility for anyone to live out Christian perfection Christian living .
[42]  of the Epistle of James Message Six Its Vague Vision,
[43]  the Wiping Out by God Scripture Reading: James 1:1 OUTLINE Its vague vision concerning God's dispensation: Calling the Jewish believers "the twelve tribes" 1:1: The Lord Jesus told His Jewish disciples that the kingdom of God would be taken from the Jews and given to the church Matt 21:43.
[44]  The divine revelation in the Scriptures is progressive in different degrees, and its progression is according to the four different ages of the Scriptures: Job's perfection Job 1:1, 8 was according to the divine revelation of the age before the law, which was Job's goal in seeking after God and replaced God in Job's satisfaction; thus, Job was stripped by God of his perfection.
[45]  Stanza 3 of Hymns, #541 says, "Not philosophy nor/Any element/Can to Christ conform us/As His complement;/But 'tis Christ Himself who/All our nature takes/And in resurrection/Us His members makes."
[46]  No philosophy, regardless of how good or high it is, can produce the Body of Christ as the complement to Christ.
[47]  James called the Jewish believers of the New Testament "the twelve tribes" 1:1 .
[48]  The law was the way God dealt with His Old Testament saints, and grace is the new way in which God deals with His New Testament saints.
[49]  The genuine perfection is according to the pure vision of God's highest divine revelation of the age of grace and is brought forth by the fullness of the riches of the consummated Triune God and through the crucifixion of the cross of Christ for the bringing forth of the Body of Christ to consummate in the New Jerusalem as God's eternal enlargement and expression.
[50]  of the Epistle of James Message Seven A CRITICAL WORD To the Study of the Epistle of James Scripture Reading: 2 Tim 3:16a OUTLINE The genuine Christian perfection as taught in the New Testament: The genuine Christian perfection taught in the New Testament is according to God's New Testament economy that God wanted to become a man that many men may become the God-men for the producing of the Body of Christ to consummate the New Jerusalem as God's ultimate goal.
[51]  Such a Christian perfection is the issue of the dispensing of the processed and consummated Triune God into the believers the God-men: By God the Father as the source, the origin Matt 5:48.
[52]  Second Corinthians 13 is to encourage the believers to be perfected by the experience of Christ as life and the enjoyment of the processed and consummated Triune God in the Father's love, with Christ's grace as the expression of the Father's love, and through the Spirit's fellowship that dispenses the Father's love in Christ's grace into the believers.
[53]  Peter's word in Acts 10:14, "By no means, Lord, for I have never eaten anything common and unclean," is also clearly not the word spoken by God, but the word spoken by Peter according to his religious concept concerning eating the unclean animals contacting and receiving the unclean Gentiles : Peter's word here was stopped by the voice from heaven, saying, "The things that God has cleansed the Gentiles whom God sanctifies , do not make common" v. 15 . This stopping word indicates that: 1 Peter, even as the first apostle in the New Testament who followed the Lord for three and a half years and experienced Pentecost by speaking a very clear word, witnessing to Christ in His death and resurrection which produced the first church in Jerusalem, still was vague in the divine revelation concerning the spreading of the gospel for Christ's increase from the Jews to the Gentiles, as what the Lord told him and the other disciples in Acts 1:8.
[54]  The New Jerusalem will be the ultimate consummation of the Body of Christ, so the genuine Christian perfection is also the Body of Christ, which is the aggregate of all the God-men living the life of the God-man.
[55]  The standard of such a Christian perfection is much higher than the standard of that stressed by James, which resembles the kind of perfection in the Old Testament on the lower level of God's Old Testament revelation.
[56]  Second Timothy 3:16a says, "All Scripture is God-breathed," that is, written by the breathing of God, through the inspiration of the Spirit of God, indicating clearly that all the sixty-six books of the Holy Scripture are written through the inspiration of the Spirit of God.
[57]  All of these five persons are God-fearing and God-seeking people, but the words spoken by them in the book of Job are very much according to their concepts concerning God's will for man, their understanding of the meaning of human life, and their realization concerning the perfection of human virtues, all of which contradict God's purpose in man, that is, that man should be filled with God to express God rather than all other things, including man's perfection of human virtues.
[58]  Prov 25:21-22 , their asking of God to avenge them 3:7; 43:1; 54:1-3 , and their cursing of others 35:4-7; 70:2-3; 109:1-15 are surely not God's words, but words that come out of the psalmists' mouth from their natural sentiment while they are praising God.
[59]  Peter's word in Matthew 17:4, "Lord, it is good for us to be here; if You are willing, I will make three tents here, one for You and one for Moses and one for Elijah," is also clearly not the word spoken by God, but the word spoken by Peter under his vague vision concerning Christ's person and His commission.
[60]  Peter's word was spoken under his vague vision that brought down Christ's most high person and His most divine commission to the lower level of Moses and Elijah, but it was written by Matthew in his Gospel, even the Gospel of the kingdom of the heavens, under the inspiration of the Spirit of God for the purpose of God to teach and enlighten Peter and his two contemporaries, John and James, and also all the believers in Christ in the entire age of grace that they may have a clear vision concerning Christ's person and His commission.
[61]  This stopping word indicates that Peter, even as the first apostle in the New Testament who followed the Lord for three and a half years and experienced Pentecost by speaking a very clear word, witnessing to Christ in His death and resurrection which produced the first church in Jerusalem, still was vague in the divine revelation concerning the spreading of the gospel for Christ's increase from the Jews to the Gentiles, as what the Lord told him and the other disciples in Acts 1:8.
[62]  Peter's word was spoken according to his revelation concerning God's Old Testament economy which was very much below the standard of God's revelation concerning His New Testament economy, yet it was written by Luke in Acts under the inspiration of the Spirit of God to enlighten Peter and all the believers in the age of grace that God's gospel is not merely for the Jews but for the Gentiles unto the uttermost part of the earth also.
[63]  The above three illustrations of Peter recorded in the Scriptures under the inspiration of the Spirit of God are like three lamps shining over the believers in their darkness that they may be enlightened to see clearly that the believers in Christ as His followers should not remain in their natural self but should take up the cross to have themselves conformed to the death of Christ that Christ may live in them and that they may live with Christ, walk with Christ, and work with Christ for the producing and building up of the Body of Christ which consummates the New Jerusalem as God's ultimate goal.
[64]  The words in the Epistle of James spoken by him that exalt the Mosaic law and charge the New Testament believers to keep it, that confuse God's dispensation of the ages, and that are devoid of Christ, His death, His resurrection, and the Spirit are surely not the words of God, but words spoken by James according to his Old Testament concept concerning the Mosaic law which is in contrast to the grace in God's New Testament economy, and according to his vague vision of the difference between God's Old Testament dispensation and His New Testament dispensation.
[65]  Yet these words were written by James in his Epistle under the inspiration of God for the divine purpose to expose him in his wrong concept concerning the law and in his vague vision concerning God's dispensation of the ages in order to teach and enlighten all the believers in Christ that they may know that they should not be frustrated by James's defective words from going on further to seek the all-inclusive Christ, the consummated Spirit, the old-creation-terminating death of Christ, and the all-new-creation-germinating resurrection of Christ for the fulfillment of God's eternal economy.
