[1]  Message Two Fellowshipping in the Inner Chambers of Christ Scripture Reading: S.S. 1:4b-8 The inner chambers of Christ 1:4b: His lovers regenerated spirits mingled with and indwelt by Him as the life-dispensing Spirit Rom 8:16; 2 Tim 4:22; Rom 8:11.
[2]  Message Five Delivered from the Self by the Cross of Christ Scripture Reading: S.S. 2:14-15 Delivered from the self: The attainment of the lover of Christ in her pursuing after Christ for satisfaction and rest results in a condition in which she overcares for her spiritual condition before Christ concerning whether or not she remains in the perfection she has attained.
[3]  by the Resurrection of Christ Scripture Reading: S.S. 2:8-13 In order to empower and encourage His lover to rise up and get away from her down situation in her introspection of the self: Christ empowers her by showing her the power of His resurrection by the gazelle s leaping upon the mountains and the young hart s skipping upon the hills 2:8-9: It is by this power of Christ s resurrection that we, the lovers of Christ, determine to take the cross by denying our self Matt 16:24 . It is also by this power of Christ s resurrection that we, the lovers of Christ, are enabled to be conformed to His death Phil 3:10 , to be one with His cross as staying in the clefts of the rock, in the covert of the precipice 2:14 . Christ encourages her by the flourishing riches of His resurrection 2:11-13: The dormant days winter are past and the trials rain are over and gone.
[4]  Message Eight Living in Ascension Scripture Reading: S.S. 4:6-9 After the lover of Christ has experienced Christ in His sweet death and His fragrant resurrection, she determines to stay in the sweet death of Christ the mountain of myrrh and His fragrant resurrection the hill of frankincense until her Beloved comes back when the day dawns and the shadows flee away 4:6.
[5]  Message Nine Becoming a Garden to Christ Scripture Reading: S.S. 4:12-5:1; 6:2-3 Through her living in Christ s ascension as the new creation in resurrection, the lover of Christ becomes mature in the riches of the life of Christ so that she becomes a garden to Christ 4:12-15: Enclosed with a spring shut up and a fountain sealed for Christ s private enjoyment v. 12.
[6]  Message Ten Becoming the Sanctuary of God Scripture Reading: S.S. 6:4a Through her living in Christ s ascension as the new creation in resurrection, the lover of Christ becomes mature in the riches of the life of Christ so that she becomes not only a garden to Christ but also the sanctuary of God, signified by Tirzah, and its safeguard, signified by Jerusalem.
[7]  Message Eleven Becoming the Heavenly Bodies Scripture Reading: S.S. 6:10a Through her living in the ascension of Christ and further living within the veil, experiencing the cross of Christ more strongly, the lover of Christ becomes the heavenly bodies: The overcoming believers can be luminaries as the moon reflecting the light of the sun in the church age Phil 2:15 . The overcoming believers will shine forth like the sun in the kingdom age Matt 13:43; Dan 12:3 . The people of God who produce the overcomers the man-child are clothed with the sun and have the moon underneath their feet Rev 12:1, 5 . The lover of Christ becoming the moon and the sun indicates that she has become not only wholly spiritual but also absolutely heavenly and signifies that she has become an overcomer: Overcoming the attraction of the world by being captivated by Christ in the first stage of this book.
