[1]  That, in addition to our natural life, we may have the divine, eternal life of God John 3:16, 36a as the basis and means of our spiritual life and living.
[2]  We not only receive the divine life through regeneration but also grow in the divine life with regeneration as the base: By being nourished with the supply of the milk of the word of God unto our daily, gradual salvation 1 Pet 2:2.
[3]  In this divine building up, which is based on the growth of the divine life, the regenerated believers as Christ s brothers and members Heb 2:11; Rom 12:5; 1 Cor 12:27 are constituted into the Body of Christ as the increase and fullness of the unlimited Christ John 3:30a; Eph 1:23 for the achievement of the purpose of God s organic salvation.
[4]  THAT WE MAY HAVE HIS DIVINE LIFE A. As the Base for Us to Grow in the Divine Life
[5]  Such a washing, such a renewing, in God s organic salvation is being carried out continually in us by means of the following matters.
[6]  The renewing in God s organic salvation is by the renewing Spirit Titus 3:5 mingling with our regenerated spirit as one spirit to spread into our mind Eph 4:22-24 and infuse our inward parts with God s attributes, which are forever new and never become old, thereby renewing our entire being.
[7]  Hence, in His complete salvation God sanctifies us in our position judicially and in our disposition organically: The judicial, positional sanctification is accomplished through the redeeming blood of Christ Heb 13:12; 10:29; 1 Cor 1:2; Rom 1:7; cf.
[8]  This causes us to be established in God s holy nature and thereby be made holy unto God Eph 1:4.
[9]  That we may be established in God s organic salvation: The sanctification in God s organic salvation is carried out by the Holy Spirit with the element of Christ s resurrection life to sanctify us in our disposition Rom 15:16 that our natural disposition, which is crooked, perverted, and full of peculiarities, may be sanctified by God s holy nature 2 Pet 1:4 .
[10]  This is for the mass reproduction of the firstborn Son of God as the prototype of a God-man, that we may be shaped in the divine image to be just like the firstborn Son of God, Christ as the God-man.
[11]  God s organic salvation is to produce something with a shape, something visible; hence, there is the shaping aspect in God s salvation.
[12]  God transforms us with the life element of the firstborn Son of God, the first God-man, who passed through death and entered into resurrection, until we are transformed metabolically into His image from one degree of glory to a higher degree of glory and are raptured and transfigured to enter into His glory 2 Cor 3:18; Phil 3:21 .
[13]  In God s organic salvation transformation is also by the Lord Spirit the pneumatic Christ in us, transforming us into the image of the glory of Christ 2 Cor 3:18b .
[14]  GOD S ORGANIC SALVATION EQUALING REIGNING IN CHRIST S LIFE MESSAGE THREE GOD S ORGANIC SALVATION 3 CONFORMATION AND GLORIFICATION OUTLINE God conforms us that we may have His divine element the solidifying of God s organic salvation Rom 8:29; 1 John 3:2: God conforms us that we may be solidified in the possession of His divine element: God s intention is for us to have His divine element in His divine life, nature, and image as His expression, but not in His Godhead.
[15]  After being regenerated, we begin to grow by the divine renewing, sanctification, and transformation until we mature in the divine life to be a full-grown man, at the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ Col 1:28; Eph 4:13 , being conformed to the image of Christ, the firstborn Son of God Rom 8:29 .
[16]  Such a conformation makes us the reprints of God s firstborn Son that we may be exactly like Him and be exactly like God in His righteousness and holiness 1 John 3:2; Eph 4:24.
[17]  This sealing of the sealing Spirit is like inking, saturating us from within with the glorious life element of God throughout our life, resulting in the redemption of our body Eph 4:30; Rom 8:23 so that our entire being bears the divine image of God.
[18]  In the previous two messages we saw the first four items of God s organic salvation: regeneration, renewing, sanctification, and transformation.
[19]  In this message, the third message on God s organic salvation, we would go on to see the matters of conformation and glorification.
[20]  God s regenerating us is the base of His organic salvation, His renewing us is the building up of His organic salvation, His sanctifying us is the establishing of His organic salvation, His transforming us is the shaping of His organic salvation, and His conforming us that we may have His divine element is the solidifying of His organic salvation Rom 8:29; 1 John 3:2 .
[21]  Being Conformed to the Image of God s Firstborn Son
[22]  Glorification, the final step in God s organic salvation, brings the conformed believers into the glory of God.
[23]  In regeneration God seals us with His Spirit Eph 1:13 ; this sealing Spirit, who is the Triune God Himself entering into us, causes us to bear God s image, signified by the seal, thus making us like God.
[24]  Furthermore, He glorifies us that we may not only be built up, established, shaped, and solidified in the experience of God s organic salvation, but also arrive at the consummation of such experience.
[25]  GOD S ORGANIC SALVATION EQUALING REIGNING IN CHRIST S LIFE MESSAGE FOUR REIGNING IN LIFE 1 IN DYING WITH ADAM AND LIVING WITH CHRIST,
[26]  God s enemy attacks us with all kinds of sufferings and calamities Rom 8:35-36 ; however, because of our response to the love of God in Christ, these attacks have become benefits to us v. 28 . Hence, we more than conquer in all these calamities v. 37 . Needing to be all-transcending in our overcoming with Christ in all circumstances: Christ s resurrection was His victory, which will accomplish the ultimate and complete victory in resurrection for us who believe in Him and participate in His resurrection 1 Cor 15:54.
[27]  With this message we begin to cover the matter of reigning in Christ s life.
[28]  The first four chapters of Romans show us the aspect of judicial redemption in God s complete salvation; the remaining twelve chapters show us the aspect of organic salvation in God s complete salvation.
[29]  We were redeemed, justified, and reconciled to God through the death of Christ.
[30]  We reign in life first in dying with Adam.
[31]  Dying with Adam is not a doctrine; rather, it is a matter of our being in an organic union with Christ.
[32]  When we reign in life, we can overcome in all circumstances Rom 8:31-39; cf.
[33]  In God s salvation this love has become the love of Christ, which does many marvelous things for us through the grace of Christ until God s complete salvation is accomplished in us.
[34]  We reign in life not only in dying with Adam, living with Christ, and being overcoming in all circumstances but also in living a grafted life with Christ Rom 11:17-24 .
[35]  In this message, the second message on reigning in life, we will see that we need to reign in life, first, in establishing not our own righteousness but God s righteousness; second, in taking Christ as God s righteousness; third, in presenting our bodies to live the Body life; and fourth, in receiving the believers to live the church life.
[36]  In these four main points we will refer to eight exceptional matters: being exceptionally strengthened, being exceptionally radiant, being exceptionally extolling, being exceptionally successful, being exceptionally practical, being exceptionally abounding, being exceptionally general, and being exceptionally smooth and orderly.
[37]  We reign in life in establishing not our own righteousness but God s righteousness and also in taking Christ as God s righteousness Rom 10:4; Phil 3:9; 1 Cor 1:30 .
[38]  OF CHRIST; IN FOLLOWING IN THE APOSTLE S FOOTSTEPS TO BRING ALL THE SAINTS INTO THE BLENDING LIFE OF THE ENTIRE BODY OF CHRIST OUTLINE In imitating the apostle to bring the local churches into the fellowship of the Body of Christ Rom 14:3; 15:7-9, 25-33: Not despising or judging others in their doctrines or practices according to doctrinal concepts, religious practices, and anything that is unrelated to our basic faith.
[39]  But receiving people according to God s receiving, not being more narrow than God, thereby demonstrating and maintaining the oneness of the Body of Christ, and receiving people according to the Son of God, according to God, not according to doctrine or practice, thus maintaining a condition of absolute peace, smoothness, and order, without any deviation and discord, in the fellowship of the Body of Christ to the glory of God 14:3; 15:7 ; Christ being a servant of the circumcision to fulfill and confirm all the promises God gave to their fathers and a servant of the Gentiles so that they may glorify God for His mercy 15:8-9 .
[40]  In following in the apostle s footsteps to bring all the saints into the blending life of the entire Body of Christ Rom 16: Following in the apostle s footsteps to bring us into the blending life of the entire Body of Christ by recommendations and greetings that the God of peace may crush Satan under our feet and we may enjoy the rich grace of Christ vv.
[41]  Carrying out the mystery kept in silence in the times of the ages concerning the complete salvation of God in the fulfillment of the eternal economy of God for the Gentiles to have the obedience of faith unto glory to the only wise God through Jesus Christ vv.
[42]  In this message, the third message on reigning in life, we want to see our reigning in life in imitating the apostle to bring the local churches into the fellowship of the Body of Christ and in following in the apostle s footsteps to bring all the saints into the blending life of the entire Body of Christ.
[43]  In this message our particular stress is on the universal fellowship of the church, the Body of Christ.
[44]  A. The Apostle Bringing Us into the Blending Life of the Entire Body of Christ
[45]  He brought us into the blending life of the entire Body of Christ by recommendations and greetings that the God of peace may crush Satan under our feet and that we may enjoy the rich grace of Christ vv.
