[1]  CONTENTS A General Sketch Two Divine Transfers One Spiritual, Practical, and Experiential Union Reigning in Life 1 Reigning in Life 2 Reigning in Life 3 PREFACE
[2]  IN ROMANS MESSAGE ONE A GENERAL SKETCH OUTLINE The complete salvation of God in the book of Romans is carried out on and brought into the believers of Christ by the power of God through His complete gospel Rom 1:16, 1.
[3]  The burden of this crystallization-study on the complete salvation of God in Romans can be summarized with the following four statements:
[4]  God's righteousness is Christ, and the believers' faith 1:17b; 10:8 is also Christ Gal 2:20b , whom they appreciate and receive in their hearing of the gospel.
[5]  The way to carry out our union with the Spirit is to set our mind not on the flesh but on the mingled spirit unto life and peace 8:6 and to learn to walk and to have our being not according to the flesh but according to the mingled spirit v. 4 . By ourselves in our flesh there is no possibility for us to fulfill the righteous requirements of the law.
[6]  With our spirit, the regenerated spirit of the believers in Christ indwelt by the Spirit 8:16a, 11b: To witness that we are children of God, even heirs of God and joint heirs with Christ, possessing the spirit of sonship to cry, "Abba, Father" 8:16-17a, 15.
[7]  The one spiritual, practical, and experiential union is of the Spirit of life, the Spirit of God, the Spirit of Christ the pneumatic Christ , and the Spirit of resurrection indwelling our spirit Rom 8:2, 9-11 , with our spirit, the regenerated spirit of the believers.
[8]  The Spirit and life are mentioned in Romans 8:2, but only in connection with the working of the law of the Spirit of life.
[9]  Life is the content and issue of the Spirit, and the Spirit is the ultimate and consummate manifestation of the Triune God after His being processed through incarnation, crucifixion, and resurrection and becoming the indwelling, life-giving Spirit, who is life to all the believers in Christ.
[10]  This is the Spirit of Christ in resurrection, that is, Christ Himself dwelling in our spirit v. 10 to impart Himself, the embodiment of the processed Triune God, into us as resurrection life and power to deal with the death that is in our nature v. 2 . Thus, we may live today in Christ's resurrection, in Christ Himself, by living in the mingled spirit.
[11]  God's complete salvation is in one spiritual, practical, and experiential union of the Spirit of life with our spirit, forming a mingled spirit.
[12]  5-6 ; 3 to put to death by the Spirit the practices of the body v. 13 ; 4 to be led by the Spirit as sons of God v. 14 ; 5 to cry to the Father in the spirit of sonship v. 15 ; 6 to witness that we are the children of God v. 16 ; and 7 to groan for the full sonship, the redemption of our body v. 23 .
[13]  It is by the all-inclusive compound life-giving Spirit see note 4 in Phil 1:19 that we are born of God, we receive the divine life as the divine seed in us, we have the fellowship of the divine life, we are anointed with the Triune God, and we abide in the Lord.
[14]  We reign in life in being conformed to the image of God's firstborn Son through the Spirit's interceding that all things may work together for the conformation of those who love God Rom 8:26-29 .
[15]  When we reign in life, we more than conquer the environmental hardships and sufferings by having God being for us, who did not spare His own Son, who gives us freely all things with Him, and who has chosen us and justified us Rom 8:31-33 ; by having Christ who died for us, who was raised, and who is sitting at the right hand of God interceding for us v. 34 ; by being captivated by the love of Christ and by the love of God in Christ from which we are inseparable vv.
[16]  We reign in life in living a grafted life 11:17-24; Gal 2:20a .
[17]  IN ROMANS MESSAGE SIX REIGNING IN LIFE 3 OUTLINE Through the abundance of grace and the abundance of the gift of righteousness Rom 5:17b: In living the church life 14:1 15:13: Receiving the believers under the reigning in life.
[18]  That the God of endurance and encouragement may grant us to be of the same mind toward one another according to Christ Jesus so that with one accord we may glorify God in receiving one another as Christ also received us to the glory of God vv.
[19]  To reign in life is to be under the ruling of the divine life.
[20]  If we look at the life of the Lord Jesus as the God-man in His humanity on the earth, He was absolutely under the ruling of the divine life of the Father.
[21]  L. In the Apostle Paul's Setting Up a Pattern
[22]  Finally, we see how Paul set up a pattern of living the church life for the living of the Body life 15:14 16:27 .
[23]  Hence, Paul was carrying out, based upon the righteousness of God and through man's obedience of faith 1:17 , the mystery kept in silence in the times of the ages, concerning the complete salvation of God in the preaching of the complete gospel of God 1:1 , in the fulfillment of the eternal economy of God for the glory to the only wise God through Jesus Christ 16:25-27 .
