[1]  LIFE-STUDY OF DANIEL MESSAGE ONE AN INTRODUCTORY WORD Scripture Reading: Dan 1:1-2
[2]  Among the many books of the prophets, four books are mysterious: Isaiah, Ezekiel, Daniel, and Zechariah.
[3]  The second point is the upcoming appearing of Christ 2:34-35, 45 .
[4]  He will appear as a stone cut out without hands to strike the great image vv.
[5]  In Luke 19 Christ is portrayed as a certain man of noble birth who went to a distant country to receive for himself a kingdom and then to return v. 12 . Christ's coming to the throne of God to receive the kingdom from the God of the heavens takes place in Daniel 7.
[6]  The contents of the book of Daniel are the seventy weeks apportioned out by God for Israel 9:24-27 .
[7]  The central thought of Daniel is that the ruling of the heavens 4:26 by the God of the heavens 2:37, 44 over all the human government on earth matches God's eternal economy for Christ to terminate the old creation for the germination of the new creation and to smash and crush the aggregate of human government and establish the eternal kingdom of God.
[8]  In his devilish temptation of Daniel and his companions, Nebuchadnezzar also changed their names, which indicated that they belonged to God, to names that made them one with the idols.
[9]  LIFE-STUDY OF DANIEL MESSAGE THREE THE VICTORY OF THE YOUNG DESCENDANTS
[10]  In the sight of God, therefore, all of human government throughout human history is composed of four empires: the Babylonian Empire, the Medo-Persian Empire, the Macedonian-Grecian Empire, and the Roman Empire.
[11]  As the stone that will crush the entire human government of mankind, Christ was not cut out with human hands as indicated by "without hands" in 2:34, 45 ; He was cut by God through His crucifixion and resurrection.
[12]  Antichrist will even go so far as to say that he is God 2 Thes 2:4; Dan 11:36 , and for his enjoyment will set up his tent between the good land and the Mediterranean Sea v. 45 . Then Christ as the God-cut stone will come with His bride to strike the toes of the image, destroying it from the toes to the head.
[13]  The great human image will be replaced with a great mountain, signifying the eternal kingdom of God, which will fill the whole earth 2:35b, 44a .
[14]  This means that after Christ comes to crush the aggregate of human government, He will usher in the eternal kingdom of God on earth.
[15]  LIFE-STUDY OF DANIEL MESSAGE FOUR THE VISION OF THE GREAT IMAGE
[16]  THE CONTROLLING VISION IN THE BOOK OF DANIEL Scripture Reading: Dan 2
[17]  In this message I would like to give a further word concerning the vision of the great image in Daniel 2.
[18]  Nebuchadnezzar responded and said, "Blessed be the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego, who has sent His angel and delivered His servants who trusted in Him and changed the king's word and yielded their bodies that they might not serve nor worship any god except their own God" v. 28 . The three young overcomers did not simply frustrate the king's word they changed it.
[19]  Nebuchadnezzar went on to make a decree that any people, nation, or language that spoke something offensive against the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego should be cut into pieces and their houses should be made a dunghill, because there is no other god who is able to deliver in this way v. 29 . Then the king caused the three young overcomers to prosper in the province of Babylon v. 30 .
[20]  In his interpretation of Nebuchadnezzar's dream, Daniel said, "You, O king, are king of kings, to whom the God of the heavens has given kingship, power, and strength and glory....You are the head of gold" 2:37-38 .
[21]  In 4:1-3 we have Nebuchadnezzar's praise concerning God in His greatness, might, eternal kingdom, and everlasting dominion.
[22]  In his dream Nebuchadnezzar saw "a watcher, indeed, a holy one, coming down from heaven and saying, Cut down the tree and destroy it; yet leave its stump of roots in the earth, but with an iron and bronze band around it, in the tender grass of the field; and let him be wet with the dew of heaven, and let his portion be with the beasts of the field until seven periods of time pass over him" v. 23 . In his interpretation Daniel explained that this signifies that the Most High God had decreed that Nebuchadnezzar would be driven out from among mankind, dwell with the beasts of the field, be made to eat grass as bulls, and lose his reasoning for a period of seven times, until he came to know that the Most High is the Ruler over the kingdom of men vv.
[23]  While the word was still in the king's mouth, a voice came down from heaven, saying, "To you it is spoken, King Nebuchadnezzar: The kingdom has passed on from you" v. 31 . God would teach him to know that he was nothing and the mighty God, the Ruler over the kingdom of men, the One who gives the kingdom of men to whomever He wills, is everything.
[24]  Daniel was set by King Darius to be one of the three chief ministers over these one hundred and twenty satraps v. 2 . Daniel distinguished himself among the chief ministers and satraps, and the king considered setting him over the whole kingdom v. 3 . By this time, Daniel was no longer a young overcomer but had become an older overcomer; he may have been close to one hundred years of age.
[25]  In verses 4 through 9 we see the subtle attack of Satan on Daniel concerning the worship of God.
[26]  Being jealous of Daniel, the chief ministers and satraps "sought to find a ground for accusation against Daniel from the perspective of the kingdom, but they could find no ground for accusation or fault, inasmuch as he was faithful, and no negligence or fault was found related to him" v. 4 . Therefore, the chief ministers and satraps, with the high officers of the kingdom, took counsel together that the king should establish a statute and make firm an edict that anyone who made a petition within the next thirty days to any god or man besides the king should be cast into the lions' den vv.
[27]  They appealed to the king, saying, "Now, O king, establish the edict and sign the writing so that it is not changed, according to the law of the Medes and Persians, which cannot pass away" v. 8 . The intention of the chief ministers and satraps was to destroy Daniel, but Satan, who was behind them, wanted to stop or cut off the channel of prayer God was using for the carrying out of His economy.
[28]  The chief ministers and the satraps assembled and found Daniel making petition and supplication before his God Dan 6:11 .
[29]  Then they came near and spoke to the king concerning his edict, saying, "Daniel, one of the captives from Judah, has not respected you, O king, or the edict that you have signed, but three times daily makes his petition" v. 13 . When the king heard this, he was very displeased with himself, and he set his heart on delivering Daniel.
[30]  Knowing that the edict could not be changed, the king commanded, and the opposers threw Daniel into the lions' den v. 16a . The king responded and said to Daniel, "Your God, whom you serve continually, He will deliver you" v. 16b . A stone was brought and set over the mouth of the den, and with signet rings it was sealed by the king and his lords that nothing might be changed regarding Daniel v. 17 . Then the king went to his palace and spent the night fasting.
[31]  When he had come near the den, he shouted to Daniel with a sad voice, saying, "O Daniel, servant of the living God, has your God, whom you serve continually, been able to deliver you from the lions?" v. 20 . Daniel replied, "My God has sent His angel and has shut the lions' mouth, and they have not hurt me, inasmuch as before Him innocence was found in me; and also before you, O king, I have done no harm" v. 22 . Just as the Lord did not quench the fire for Daniel's three companions, He also did not slay the lions for Daniel's sake.
[32]  Verses 25 through 28 reveal God's victory over Satan in the worship of God on earth, even in a Gentile kingdom, through the overcomers in the captivity of His defeated elect.
[33]  "For He is the living God / And enduring forever; / And His kingdom is one which will not be destroyed, / And His dominion will be unto the end. / He delivers and rescues, / And He does signs and wonders / In heaven and on earth; / It is He who has delivered Daniel from the power of the lions" vv.
[34]  LIFE-STUDY OF DANIEL MESSAGE NINE THE VISIONS OF THE OVERCOMING DANIEL 1 THE VISION CONCERNING THE FOUR BEASTS
[35]  Daniel 7:1 says, "In the first year of Belshazzar king of Babylon Daniel saw a dream and visions of his head upon his bed.
[36]  This indicates that the year of the vision in chapter seven was the first year of Belshazzar king of Babylon, about 555 B.C. The captivity began in 606 B.C., and the return of the children of Israel from captivity took place in 536 B.C., nineteen years after Daniel saw this vision.
[37]  According to His economy, God will rule over the world, produce a situation for Israel to be His elect, gain the church to be His mysterious people, and have all the nations to be the peoples in the eternal kingdom of God.
[38]  OUT OF THE MEDITERRANEAN SEA 2 Scripture Reading: Dan 7:9-10, 13-14, 26-27
[39]  In this message we will consider further the vision in Daniel 7 concerning the four beasts out of the Mediterranean Sea.
[40]  Thousands of thousands ministered to Him, and ten thousands of ten thousands stood before Him Dan 7:10b .
[41]  This vast number of angels ministered to Him for His service and stood before Him for His glory.
[42]  His dominion is an eternal dominion, which will not pass away, and His kingdom is one that will not be destroyed v. 14; Luke 19:12, 15a . This is Christ's kingdom; it is also God's kingdom.
[43]  In His second appearing Christ will come as a stone Matt 21:44b cut out without hands not by man's hands to strike the great human image the human government on earth on its feet of iron and clay the Roman Empire under Antichrist and crush the iron, the clay, the bronze, the silver, and the gold the entire human government on earth .
[44]  LIFE-STUDY OF DANIEL MESSAGE ELEVEN THE VISIONS OF THE OVERCOMING DANIEL 2 THE VISION CONCERNING A RAM
[45]  In chapter seven Daniel saw a vision of the four beasts out of the Mediterranean Sea.
[46]  The little horn grew great, as high as the host of heaven, and he caused some of the host and some of the stars to fall to the earth, and he trampled them v. 10; 11:30b-35 . This signifies that he became great in power and persecuted the saints signified by the host of heaven and the stars 12:3 . In all these evil things he typifies the coming Antichrist Rev 13:5-7; 2 Thes 2:3b-4 .
[47]  LIFE-STUDY OF DANIEL MESSAGE TWELVE GOD'S ECONOMY IN THE BOOK OF DANIEL Scripture Reading: Dan 9:26; 2:35, 44; 7:13-14; 3:23-25; 10:4-9; 4:17, 25-26; Rev 19:7-9, 11-16, 19-21; 17:14
[48]  Although the book of Daniel is short, it has many points, it speaks of many events and persons, and it contains many spiritual lessons for us.
[49]  What is primary is that in His economy, in His plan with His arrangement, God desires to make Christ the centrality and universality of His move on earth.
[50]  Concerning such a Christ, the book of Daniel covers five main points: the death of Christ, the upcoming appearing of Christ, Christ as the Son of Man who comes to the throne of God to receive dominion and a kingdom, Christ as the Companion of the suffering witnesses of God, and the excellency of Christ.
[51]  Whereas Daniel 2 speaks of Christ coming as a stone cut out without hands, Revelation 19 speaks of Christ coming as the One who has His bride as His army.
[52]  We need Christ to receive the kingdom from God and come to crush all the beasts and then to become a great mountain that comprises us and that fills the whole earth to be the kingdom of God.
[53]  LIFE-STUDY OF DANIEL MESSAGE THIRTEEN HUMAN GOVERNMENT FIGHTING AGAINST GOD
[54]  After Christ has married His bride, He will come as the stone cut out without hands and will crush the great human image from the toes to the head, destroying the human government which fights against God directly.
[55]  As such a co-regent he destroyed the city of Jerusalem in 606 B.C. Then about 604 B.C. he became king and reigned until 561 B.C. Eventually he was replaced by his son and then by his grandson, Belshazzar, whose debauchery in Daniel 5 was an insult to God and who was slain in 538 B.C. At that time the Babylonian Empire came to an end, and Darius the Mede received the kingdom at the age of sixty-two.
[56]  LIFE-STUDY OF DANIEL MESSAGE FOURTEEN THE VISIONS OF THE OVERCOMING DANIEL 3 THE VISION CONCERNING THE SEVENTY WEEKS Scripture Reading: Dan 9
[57]  Daniel 9:24-27 is the most precious portion in the entire book of Daniel.
[58]  Furthermore, Daniel asked the Lord to forgive them, not based upon their righteousness but based upon God's great compassion vv.
[59]  Daniel 9:24-27 tells us of the seventy weeks.
[60]  In this gap the church is being secretly and mysteriously built by Christ in His resurrection to be the Body of Christ and bride of Christ.
[61]  After the visions seen by Daniel in chapters seven through nine, Daniel saw the vision concerning the destiny of Israel.
[62]  However, before we are told of the vision Daniel saw concerning Israel's destiny in chapter eleven, chapter ten shows us the spiritual world behind the physical.
[63]  "In the third year of Cyrus king of Persia a word was revealed to Daniel, who was named Belteshazzar" 10:1a .
[64]  The third year of Cyrus, the king of Persia, the year of this vision, was about 534 B.C., when Daniel was eighty-seven years of age.
[65]  First, the excellent Christ appeared in His priesthood for taking care of His chosen people v. 5a . His priesthood is signified by the linen robe.
[66]  Finally, Christ appeared to Daniel in His strong speaking for judging people.
[67]  LIFE-STUDY OF DANIEL MESSAGE SIXTEEN THE VISIONS OF THE OVERCOMING DANIEL 4 THE VISION CONCERNING THE DESTINY OF ISRAEL 2 Scripture Reading: Dan 11:2-45
[68]  In this message we will begin to consider the contents of the vision concerning the destiny of Israel.
[69]  The contents of this vision concern the destiny of Israel from the last part of the kingdom of Persia to the last three and a half years of the present age, even including the kingdom age and eternity, as the truth that was inscribed in the writing of truth 10:21 told to Daniel by the angelic messenger 11:2 12:13 .
[70]  Verses 2b and 3 speak of the fighting of the last king of the kingdom of Persia against the kingdom of Greece and the defeat of Persia by the mighty king of Greece, Alexander the Great, about 356-323 B.C. 8:5-8a, 20-21; 7:5-6a . The death of Belshazzar in 538 B.C. marked the end of the Babylonian Empire and the beginning of the Medo-Persian Empire, which lasted until 336 B.C. The last king of this empire was defeated by Alexander the Great.
[71]  He will exalt himself and magnify himself above every god, and against the God of gods he will speak extraordinary things v. 36 . He will not regard the gods of his fathers or the desire of women, nor will he regard any other god, for he will magnify himself above all v. 37 . He will honor instead a god of fortresses, and he will take action against the most fortified of fortresses with the help of a foreign god vv.
[72]  The book of Daniel covers a wide span of the Bible, from Genesis 10 to the end of the New Testament, from Babel to the New Jerusalem.
[73]  As we will see, the vision in Daniel 12 covers things in the last three and a half years of the present age, things in the kingdom age, and things in eternity.
[74]  As we come to Daniel 12, we need to realize that in this book there is a gap in the chronicle of history from the ending of the ruling of the four successors of Alexander the Great from about the second half of the last century B.C., the time the Roman Empire rose up to take the place of the kingdom of Greece as the world power that will end the present age to the last three and a half years v. 7 of the present age.
[75]  At the very end of this age, many of the evil ones from the nations will be gathered together by Antichrist.
[76]  But Christ will come as the stone cut out without hands to smash all these evil ones.
[77]  The goats will join Antichrist in the lake of fire v. 41 . The sheep will be restored not regenerated to the original God-created condition and will be counted by Christ as His people, His citizens of the millennial kingdom.
[78]  Therefore, in the kingdom there will be three groups of people: 1 the overcoming believers in the heavenly section as kings and priests in the heavenlies; 2 the saved Jews who will be on the earth as the teaching priests to help the restored nations; and 3 the restored nations as the citizens under the ruling of the overcoming believers as the co-kings of Christ and also under the teaching and care of the saved Jews.
[79]  Now that we have come to the end of the Life-study of Daniel, I would like to give a concluding word.
[80]  The book of Daniel shows us a man whose heart is one with God and is set absolutely on the destiny of his people, Israel.
[81]  He will receive the eternal kingdom from God and appear to end and smash all the human government from its toes to its head and become the enlarged kingdom of God throughout the whole earth.
[82]  In addition to this result of the manifested part of His economy, in the hidden part of His divine economy God will complete the building up of the church as the Body of Christ to be God's royal family to rule as kings in the new heaven and new earth.
