[1]  Truth Lessons, Level 2, Vol. 2 Lessons 13-24 CONTENTS
[2]  Lesson 13 The First Group of Historical Figures in the Old Testament 1 Adam and Eve
[3]  TRUTH LESSONS LEVEL TWO LESSON THIRTEEN THE FIRST GROUP
[4]  IN THE OLD TESTAMENT 1 ADAM AND EVE OUTLINE Adam: Declaring God.
[5]  After God created Adam, He authorized Adam to have dominion over all creatures in the seas, in the air, and on the earth Gen 1:26, 28 .
[6]  That is, He established Adam as His deputy, one who would exercise His authority to rule on the earth for Him, especially to have dominion over the earth in order to deal with His enemy, Satan, typified by the serpent, the chief among the creeping things Gen 1:26; 3:1; Rev 12:9 , and to restrict Satan s movement on earth.
[7]  If God would have His kingdom come on earth, have His will done on earth, and have His glory manifested on earth Matt 6:10, 13 , His authority must be brought in through man that His enemy might be dealt with and that man might represent Him in ruling on the earth, thus fulfilling God s economy.
[8]  In His administration in the universe, God established Adam as the head of the woman.
[9]  However, he not only failed to keep his position as the head, but he also followed his wife and acted contrary to God s ordination, causing all mankind to fall into sin and to be constituted sinners.
[10]  Furthermore, according to this promise, Christ would become the sacrifice for redemption and would shed His blood to accomplish propitiation Gen 3:21; John 1:29 in order to save and bring back fallen man that he might receive God s life and become God s expression.
[11]  Such righteousness makes it possible for fallen sinners to be justified by God Rom 3:24 , to become acceptable to God, and thereby to be able to fellowship with God.
[12]  Adam and Eve must have told them also how God came in to preach the gospel by promising them that the seed of woman would bruise the head of the serpent, and how God had slain the sacrifices, which were their substitutes, and used the skins to make clothing to cover their nakedness that they could stand before God and have fellowship with Him.
[13]  . To serve the ground is to earn a living, which is for the sustaining of one s own existence, not for God s purpose in His redemption.
[14]  He realized that he needed to present an offering with the shedding of blood for his redemption Heb 9:22 and for the satisfying of God s righteous requirement that he might be accepted by God and have fellowship with God.
[15]  Cain was a server of the ground that he might earn a living for himself, whereas Abel was a feeder of sheep Gen 4:2, lit. that he might have an offering to present to God.
[16]  At that time, before the flood, man ate only vegetables and fruits Gen 1:29 , for God had not yet ordained that man should eat of the cattle, whose blood could be shed Gen 9:3-4 .
[17]  Moreover, in the sense of man s need for covering because of the fall, the skin that was left from the sacrificial lamb was for the covering of man s shame before God so that man could be acceptable to God and thereby could contact God.
[18]  In the divine revelation, Adam, among the first pair of characters, points to God s redemption, which was promised by God and was needed by fallen man.
[19]  Enosh called upon the name of Jehovah and enjoyed the riches of God; Enoch, in the spiritual sense, carried on from Enosh and went a step further to walk with God, and was taken by God so that he escaped the ultimate issue of man s fall, that is, death.
[20]  Such a culture, which was without God and was united with Satan, became a model representing all human cultures throughout the ages and signifying that these cultures have departed from God and are without God, and that they have followed Satan and are united with Satan.
[21]  The godless culture began as a seed in Genesis 4, and it will develop throughout the history of the entire human race until it consummates in Babylon the Great in Revelation 18, which also will be cleared away by God s judgment.
[22]  This clearing away by God s judgment is Christ s judgment of the world at His coming back.
[23]  However, when God used the flood to judge the corrupted human race, He changed the purpose of the function of the atmosphere so that it was no longer for the existence of man and all living creatures, but was for the executing of God s judgment to destroy mankind and the whole earth Gen 6:13 .
[24]  As we have mentioned before, in the human culture that was without God and was united with Satan, man and the angels of Satan, the fallen angels, became mixed as one through human marriage.
[25]  This caused the human race created by God to become mixed with the race of the evil spirits.
[26]  Therefore, God used the judgment of the flood to destroy the entire human race, except Noah s family of eight.
[27]  Thus the purified human beings may enter into the new heaven and new earth and live on the new earth to be God s people forever for God s eternal kingdom, so that God and His redeemed and transformed people may carry out His kingship, and so that His glory may be manifested in them Rev 21:24; 22:5b .
[28]  IN THE OLD TESTAMENT 5 NOAH AND THE ARK OUTLINE Noah: Inheriting the spiritual blessings from his forefathers to maintain and extend God s way of redemption and life.
[29]  Working with God to accomplish the salvation that was being carried out by God.
[30]  Gen 5:4-29 , he inherited the spiritual blessings from his forefathers and took God s way of redemption and life, including Adam s way of salvation, Abel s way of offering, Enosh s way of calling, and Enoch s way of walking with God.
[31]  This shows that in order for God to work on the earth according to His economy, He must gain some who will walk and live with Him and who will cooperate, coordinate, and work with Him on the earth.
[32]  Because Ham exposed the failure of the head of the family and the leader of mankind, he and his descendants received the curse Gen 9:24-25, cf. v. 18 . Out of Ham s cursed descendants men like Nimrod were produced Gen 10:6-9 . The tragic result was that they fell into all kinds of evil, such as rebellion against God, opposition to God, and the bringing in of idols.
[33]  But the ark, which Noah built by working with God, was for the accomplishing of God s salvation in His economy, because man possessed God and the spiritual blessings that come from Him, took God s way of redemption and life, and walked and lived with God.
[34]  In particular, the church that is being built today by those who work together with God is the practical building of Christ, that is, the building of Christ s Body as God s habitation Eph 4:12; 2:22 , with the essence and element of Christ s riches as the building material.
[35]  According to Nimrod s genealogy, he was not a descendant of Cain, yet according to the way that he took, he did not follow his forefather Noah to take the way of God s redemption and life; rather, he followed those who were in the genealogy of Cain to take the way of godlessness and death, a way in which everything is out of death, lies in death, and is unto death, and in which everything is without God and has nothing to do with God.
[36]  Among the first group of historical figures, Nimrod was indeed a negative model, indicating that all those after him who took the godless way and were independent of God were like him they were born under the curse, walked in death, were utilized by Satan, God s enemy, became mighty ones, formed nations, and brought in idolatry.
[37]  Hence, the city of Babel is a negative type, signifying that all man-made organizations among the human race, whether secular or religious, are for making a name for man himself and for opposing God, and that they are full of fornication and idolatry.
[38]  Abraham s building an altar and staying in Hebron shows that he not only worshipped and served God but also lived in constant fellowship with God.
[39]  As a person who walked and lived by faith and in fellowship with God, Abraham was favored by God with the promise that all the families of the earth would be blessed in his seed and that he also would become one who would be blessed and not be cursed Gen 22:18; 12:2-3 .
[40]  The foregoing weakness manifested by Abraham shows us further that, although he was a great man who had faith in God, he had not matured in the spiritual life.
[41]  That he was immature can be proved also by the fact that he remarried and begot children after Sarah s death Gen 25:1-2 .
[42]  This also is a negative model, showing that a person may be called, have faith, live in fellowship with God, and be led by God in his living and actions, yet he may not be fully transformed and may not be a complete pattern.
[43]  As one of the historical figures in the Bible, Abraham cannot signify a complete, spiritually mature person; he can signify only the initial stage of the experience and life of a spiritually mature person, a stage that includes such experiences as God s calling, justification by faith, living the life of faith, and the living that is in fellowship with God.
[44]  When God overthrew Sodom, He remembered Abraham and heard his intercession.
[45]  Although God rescued Lot because He remembered Abraham s intercession Gen 19:29 , Lot, after being rescued, did not go back to Abraham to be helped again to follow God by faith.
[46]  The idolatrous people of Babel were the descendants of Cush, the son of Ham Gen 10:6-10 , whereas the wicked people of Sodom were the descendants of Canaan, another son of Ham Gen 10:15-16, 19; 15:19-21 .
[47]  Ishmael was rejected by God because he was born of Abraham according to the flesh, that is, by man s natural strength, the strength of the flesh, and not by God s grace Gen 17:18-19 .
[48]  Sarah, the free woman Gal 4:22b , symbolizes the new covenant of grace Gal 4:24a , which has the proper position in God s economy to bring forth children as God s heirs who will inherit what is of God.
[49]  Furthermore, he inherited God s promise to his father, especially the promise concerning Christ, in whom all the nations of the earth would be blessed Gen 26:3-5 .
[50]  As a historical figure in the Bible, Isaac, like Abraham, does not represent a complete, spiritually mature man.
[51]  He represents only a part of the experience and life of a spiritually mature person, which includes the inheriting of grace, not using one s own effort, and the restful enjoyment of the riches of Christ.
[52]  However, Sarah, who submitted herself to her husband, is a negative model in the matter of proposing that her husband take Hagar as a concubine Gen 16:1-3 .
[53]  God had repeatedly promised Abraham that he would have a seed and that he would personally bring forth a son Gen 12:7; 13:15; 15:4-5 , yet Sarah was not able to bear children.
[54]  In her we can see that the church, which she symbolizes, has the following four characteristics: the church was chosen for Christ out of the fallen people through God the Father s sending of the Holy Spirit to the place of fallen men; the church receives the Holy Spirit and the gift of life from the Holy Spirit and enjoys the riches of Christ; the church is willing to be separated from its relatives in the flesh and from the world; and the church is given to Christ to be His counterpart, bringing satisfaction to Him and enjoying all the riches that He has inherited from God the Father.
[55]  JACOB A. Symbolizing One Who Is Chosen by God
[56]  When the two were not yet born, before they had done anything good or bad, God chose Jacob, that the purpose of God according to selection might remain, not of works, but of Him who calls Rom 9:11 .
[57]  On the way during his escape to his uncle Laban s, Jacob slept on a stone, which he took for a pillow, and dreamed about a ladder set up on the earth, with God at the top of the ladder, saying, I am the Lord God of Abraham thy father, and the God of Isaac...and in thee and in thy seed shall all the families of the earth be blessed Gen 28:10-14 .
[58]  Jacob s transformation was accomplished also by God s direct dealing.
[59]  Under God s sovereignty, through the sufferings in his circumstances and through God s direct dealing, Jacob was transformed and matured so that he became Israel.
[60]  Although because of his cruel disposition Levi did not receive Jacob s blessing, because of their faithfulness to Jehovah his descendants received the Urim and Thummim Deut 33:8 and took up the charge of the priesthood.
[61]  As recorded in the book of Exodus, when Moses came down from Mount Sinai with the tables and saw the people worshipping the golden calf in disobedience to God s commandments, he angrily cast down the two tables, burned the golden calf, and called all those who belonged to Jehovah to come to him.
[62]  Moses said to them, Thus saith the Lord God of Israel, Put every man his sword by his side, and go in and out from gate to gate throughout the camp, and slay every man his brother, and every man his companion, and every man his neighbor.
[63]  However, because of his love for his brothers, he received the kingship Gen 49:10 as a portion of the birthright; that is, he had the authority to bring God to people.
[64]  of the Land as a Portion of the Birthright
[65]  He typifies Christ as the Father s Beloved Gen 37:3-4; Matt 3:17; 17:5 ; as the One who ministered to God s people according to the will of God the Father Gen 37:12-17; John 6:38 , but was hated, harassed, and betrayed by them Gen 37:4-5, 8, 18-28 ; as the One who was delivered into the prison of death Gen 39:20; Acts 2:23 and resurrected from the prison of death Gen 41:14; Acts 2:24 ; and as the One who was enthroned with authority Gen 41:40-44; Matt 28:18; Acts 2:36; Rev 3:21 , who received glory Gen 41:42; Heb 2:9 and gifts Gen 41:42; Acts 2:33 , and who became the Savior of the world, the Sustainer of Life Gen 41:56-57; Acts 5:31; John 6:50-51 .
