[1]  The Introduction and Conclusion below were published in The Orange County Register in 1977 along with the following eighteen articles by members representing the local churches.
[2]  Then the Lord showed us from His Word a number of lost truths, such as the multiplication, the enlargement, of the unlimited Christ, the corporate Christ, the church being the manifestation of God in the flesh, the proper unity of the Body of Christ, the practical expression of the church, and other items.
[3]  The public statements made at Melodyland on October 2, 1977 regarding what Witness Lee and the local churches believe concerning the Trinity contain at least fifteen errors.
[4]  The speaker charged that "Witness Lee and the local church are anti the historic view of Trinitarian theology and have adopted an ancient church heresy known as Monarchianistic Modalism."
[5]  The speaker and his associates claim that it took them hundreds of pages of wading and documentation to come up with the fact that the Holy Spirit is in the process of becoming the church so that the church ends up as God.
[6]  On behalf of Witness Lee and all the local churches, we go on record before the Christian public to protest against the meeting held at Melodyland on October 2, 1977.
[7]  In the letters to the seven churches, it is the risen Christ who speaks, but who at the same time says: "He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches" Rev 2:7, etc. . We think, however, mainly of Paul's words: "Now the Lord is the Spirit" 2 Cor 3:17a . Some think that we have to reverse subject and predicate, and to translate: "Now the Spirit is Lord," the Spirit wields lordship; but the word "Lord" in verses 17 and 18 always means Christ.
[8]  Other features of this conception in Paul are found in 1 Corinthians 6:17: "he who is united to the Lord becomes one Spirit with him," and in Romans 8:9-11, where the divine principle which dwells in the faithful alternately is called the Spirit, the Spirit of God, the Spirit of Christ, and Christ.
[9]  Witness Lee has perverted the Christian doctrine of the Trinity and has adopted an ancient church heresy known as Monarchianistic Modalism.
[10]  There are two types of modalism, the logical person who realizes that God cannot be both Father, Son, and Holy Spirit at the same time and then they say God was first the Father, became the Son, and then became the Holy Spirit.
[11]  The illogical ones recognize that the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit are spoken of at the same time and therefore try to say that the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit somehow exist at the same time and yet are each other.
[12]  Since the speaker at Melodyland is confused concerning the proper understanding of the mingling as taught by Witness Lee and the local churches, we take this opportunity to relate the scriptural and historical points concerning mingling.
[13]  Why do we call ourselves "the church in Anaheim," "the church in Huntington Beach," or "the church in Los Angeles"?
[14]  Although this simple title planned by God, spoken by the Lord, addressed by the Spirit, and referred to by the apostles has been persistently misused and abused, we still would return to the Bible to call ourselves what the Triune God and the apostles have called us, "the church."
[15]  Ephesians 1:22-23 says that God "gave Him Christ to be the Head over all things to the church, which is His body.
[16]  " Hence, there is a marvelous Person in this universe: Christ is the Head, and the church is the Body.
[17]  Just as in a normal human being, the body shares the same life and nature with the head; so in the relationship of the church with Christ, the church partakes of the very divine life and nature of Christ.
[18]  The obvious conclusion, then, is that since Christ is embodied and expressed in so many members as His Body, and since Christ is God, then the church is none other than God manifest in the flesh.
[19]  In a message on Witness Lee and the local church, given recently at Melodyland, the speaker made several references to "Historic Christianity."
[20]  It was recently alleged by a speaker at Melodyland that the local churches have called Melodyland, "Babylon."
[21]  But according to the Bible, the body is different from the flesh, which in the Scriptures has at least three meanings: the flesh of our physical body John 6:55 ; the fallen, corrupted body contaminated by sin Rom 7:18 ; and the fallen man Rom 3:20 .
[22]  Therefore, the Spirit in us v. 17 is Christ in us v. 20 . Speaking of the day of His resurrection, Christ says in verse 20, "At that day ye shall know that I am in my Father, and ye in me, and I in you." By His incarnation Christ could be among us, but by His resurrection He could come into us.
[23]  After hearing a recent message given at Melodyland, I was quite troubled concerning the remarks about Witness Lee and the study of God's Word in the local churches.
[24]  The speaker, while addressing that same audience, and knowing very little of the lives of those in the local churches, made this accusation: "The local church does not have individualized Bible study.
[25]  Having spent fourteen years under some of the best Bible expositors, I was surprised when I came to the church in Los Angeles to find that the Lord had gone on and had opened the Word of God through the ministry of Witness Lee in a way that was far beyond what I had seen or heard.
[26]  It is an understatement to say that the speaker at Melodyland has a blind spot, which becomes obvious in the way he quotes the Bible.
[27]  He begins with that premise, so he reads it like this: "The Lord is the Spirit," but all the time he knows in his mind that the Lord here cannot be Christ, because he already has the premise that Christ cannot be the Spirit.
[28]  In a recent meeting at Melodyland in Anaheim, California, a speaker in his attack upon Witness Lee and the local churches referred in a rather mocking way to what he calls the doctrine of releasing the spirit.
[29]  He mentions that if you were to attend a meeting of the local church, you would find that it would be punctuated with loud exclamations of "O Lord Jesus, Hallelujah, and Praise the Lord!"
[30]  He goes on to say that a newcomer might think that this was strange, but it is the common practice in the meetings of the local church in what is known as "the doctrine of releasing the spirit."
[31]  Since this speaker has probably never been to a meeting of the local church, I would like to say that his mocking way of describing our meetings is absolutely not true.
[32]  In a blatant and insulting attack on Witness Lee and the local church last week, a speaker at Melodyland used mockery and sarcasm to malign the practice of pray-reading.
[33]  When the main speaker at Melodyland on Sunday, October 2, 1977 began his address on Witness Lee and the local church, his initial remark after prayer was, "If you have come to the meeting this afternoon anticipating Roast Witness Lee and the local church,' I feel you will be sadly disappointed."
[34]  By associating Witness Lee and the local churches with Joseph Smith and Mormonism, J. F. Rutherford, Charles T. Russell and Jehovah's Witnesses, Mary Baker Eddy and Christian Science, and Herbert W. Armstrong and the Radio Church of God, the speaker has condemned us as a cult.
[35]  While I do not expect the speaker to necessarily understand or agree with what the Lord Jesus Christ is doing in the local churches, I do hope that he would refrain from this vile association of Witness Lee and the local churches with the cults.
[36]  I can testify from intimate personal experience that I have seen hundreds of people genuinely born again, delivered from sin and the world, and presently following the Lord Jesus Christ with their whole heart as a result of his ministry.
[37]  These churches are the fruit of the fundamental, Bible-oriented, Christ-exalting ministry of Witness Lee.
[38]  I am grieved because I know that Witness Lee is a blood-washed, born-again believer in the Lord Jesus Christ who has been greatly used by God for more than forty years.
[39]  The speaker also maligns Witness Lee as a self-styled recovery agent, implying that we, the people in the local church are just following Witness Lee and not submitting our lives to the Holy Spirit.
[40]  Never have I been so helped in knowing the Word of God, loving the Lord Jesus Christ, and being led by the Holy Spirit as since coming to know and be with Witness Lee.
[41]  The following is the list of articles printed in The Orange County Register from October 8, 1977 through March 4, 1978, in response to the Bible Answer Man.
