[1]  CONTENT The Secret of Regeneration The Secret of Feeding and Sanctification The Secret of Renewing and Transformation The Secret of Building The Secret of Conformation and Glorification The Secret of the Intensified Work of God's Organic Salvation
[2]  CHAPTER ONE THE SECRET OF REGENERATION OUTLINE The Divine Trinity s seeking of the lost sinners: The Second of the Divine Trinity, the Son, came to seek the lost sinners outside of them objectively on the cross, as a shepherd seeks his lost sheep Luke 15:4.
[3]  Then the Third of the Divine Trinity, the Spirit, comes to seek the lost sinners with the enlightening Word within them subjectively in their heart, as a woman seeking her lost coin by lighting a lamp Luke 15:8.
[4]  This is the initial sanctification of the Spirit to separate a lost sinner from among all the others unto repentance to God for the receiving of Christ s redemption 1 Pet 1:2; see Chapter Two, point II.A.1.
[5]  The secret of regeneration the first section of God s organic salvation: The Spirit of reality, who has sanctified the lost sinners unto repentance, comes to convict the sinners: Concerning sin, which is from Adam.
[6]  Prayer: Father, we extol You as the Lord of heaven and earth.
[7]  It is of Your sovereignty that we can have this blending conference.
[8]  John 3:3 and 5 tell us that regeneration is to be born anew.
[9]  The Spirit convicts sinners that they may be born anew of water the water of baptism signifying death and of the Spirit who has sanctified the sinners from among others and who is the reality of resurrection in their spirit enlivened by Christ in resurrection.
[10]  Regeneration is through the resurrection of Christ that He may impart the divine life into the lost sinners as the authority for them to be the children of God, begotten of God as His species 1 Pet 1:3; John 1:12-13 .
[11]  The experiences of the foregoing points A through F are all by exercising the spirit of a repentant and saved sinner through prayer to call on the name of the Lord Eph 6:18; Rom 10:13 .
[12]  AND SANCTIFICATION OUTLINE The secret of feeding the continuation of regeneration the second section of God s organic salvation: The initial feeding: To feed the newborn babes new believers.
[13]  Prayer: Lord, we extol You as the speaking God.
[14]  You spoke in ancient times, and we have Your Word in our hand.
[15]  This Spirit is the generating Spirit, the nourishing Spirit, the sanctifying Spirit, the renewing Spirit, the transforming Spirit, the building Spirit, the maturing Spirit, the sealing Spirit, and the intensified Spirit.
[16]  Our spirit needs to be touched by Christ in nine ways and become a spirit quickened by Christ, cherished by Christ, captivated by Christ, indwelt by Christ, filled by Christ, possessed by Christ, enriched with Christ, exulting with Christ, and drawn by the Lamb.
[17]  The initial feeding is to feed the newborn babes, the new believers.
[18]  We feed them through cherishing them to pray-read the word and call on the Lord by exercising their spirit cherished by Christ.
[19]  The feeding in God s organic salvation also includes the feeding in shepherding.
[20]  Because the church needs shepherding, the Lord Jesus commissioned Peter, the apostle appointed by Him, to shepherd His lambs and feed His sheep in his loving of Him John 21:15-17 .
[21]  God s positional sanctification is to sanctify our outward standing before Him by the redeeming blood of Christ judicially; whereas God s dispositional sanctification is to sanctify our inward fallen nature by the Spirit organically through our spirit captivated by Christ.
[22]  CHAPTER THREE THE SECRET OF RENEWING AND TRANSFORMATION OUTLINE The secret of renewing the fourth section of God s organic salvation: All the regenerated believers have been created into one new man in Christ Eph 2:15; Col 3:10 ; hence, they are God s new creation 2 Cor 5:17; Gal 6:15 .
[23]  But this new creation is out of God s old creation, of which so many old things should be renewed to become new.
[24]  In fact, the creation of the new man has been completed by Christ on the cross Eph 2:15 ; but in practicality, the believers, who are the members of the new man, should apply to themselves what Christ has completed by being practically renewed in their living.
[25]  Transformation transforms the believers entire being, by the transforming Spirit in their spirit filled with Christ, into the glorious image of Christ, that they may fully participate in God s divinity: It is by renewing Rom 12:2b ; it is the issue of renewing.
[26]  We acknowledge that You are the Lord of all, that You are the speaking God, and that You are the Spirit who dispenses Your life into our being.
[27]  Renewing is by the renewing Spirit mingling with the believers regenerated spirit indwelt by Christ as one spirit to spread into the believers mind Eph 4:23 to renew their entire being as a member of the new man.
[28]  Transformation is the fifth section of God s organic salvation.
[29]  Regeneration has added the divine life to the believers redeemed life, making the two a grafted life; thus, the believers participate in God s divinity.
[30]  CHAPTER FOUR THE SECRET OF BUILDING OUTLINE Something critical to the accomplishment of God s eternal economy: To be built up with the fellow believers is the Lord s supreme and highest requirement to His faithful seekers according to one of the divine attributes, the divine oneness, of the Divine Trinity John 17.
[31]  Being built up with the fellow partakers of the divine life is the highest virtue of the one who pursues after Christ in God s eternal economy.
[32]  The secret of building the sixth section of God s organic salvation: The prerequisites of the believers building up in the church, the Body of Christ: To realize that the Lord loves and wants to have a built church, not scattered individual believers.
[33]  Prayer: O dear Lord, hear the singing of this hymn Hymns, #840 .
[34]  Another prerequisite is that we acknowledge that all the believers have been baptized in one Spirit into one Body and that God has placed the members in the Body and blended all the Body together 1 Cor 12:13a, 18, 24 .
[35]  The believers also need to be in the common fellowship of the enjoyment of Christ as the believers common portion for the keeping of the oneness of the Body to witness that Christ is neither divisible nor divided 1 Cor 1:2, 9-13 .
[36]  First, the materials of the divine building are the Divine Trinity as the transformed precious items gold, silver, and precious stones 1 Cor 3:12 .
[37]  The building is also by the Spirit s operation, distributing to each member different gifts for the building up of the Body 1 Cor 12:4, 7-11 .
[38]  AND GLORIFICATION OUTLINE The secret of conformation the seventh section of God s organic salvation: God s intention is to make man like Him in His divine life, nature, and image as His expression, but not in His Godhead.
[39]  After being regenerated, the regenerated believers begin to grow through: The divine feeding, The divine sanctification, The divine renewing, The divine transformation in the divine life, Until they mature in the divine life by the maturing Spirit in the believers spirit enriched with Christ to be a full-grown man, at the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ Col 1:28; Eph 4:13, Conformed to the image of Christ the firstborn Son of God Rom 8:29, Who was begotten by God in His resurrection with both His divinity and His enlivened and uplifted humanity, possessing two natures, both divine and human Acts 13:33; Rom 1:4; 1 Pet 3:18.
[40]  The secret of glorification the eighth section of God s organic salvation: In regeneration God seals the regenerated believers with His Spirit Eph 1:13.
[41]  The word redemption indicates it is judicial because the believers redeemed body is of the fallen old creation this redemption of the believers body is the finalization of God s judicial redemption; the word transfiguration indicates it is organic because the transfiguration of the believers body is by the divine life within them.
[42]  Prayer: Lord, we extol You again, acknowledging that You are the One whom God sent to speak His words and that You are also the One who gives the Spirit, the bountiful Spirit, all-inclusive Spirit, life-giving Spirit, the indwelling Spirit, not by measure.
[43]  The believers need to grow until they mature in the divine life by the maturing Spirit in their spirit enriched with Christ to be a full-grown man, at the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ Col 1:28; Eph 4:13 .
[44]  We cannot mature without the proper supply, and this supply is the life-giving Spirit, who is the maturing Spirit in the believers spirit enriched with Christ.
[45]  In God s organic salvation the believers will be conformed to the image of Christ the firstborn Son of God Rom 8:29 .
[46]  C. The Believers Brought into the Glory of God
[47]  At the time of the rapture of the believers who are matured in the divine life, they will be brought in their spirit exulting with Christ from without into the glory of God for their glorification Rom 8:30; Heb 2:10 .
[48]  OF GOD S ORGANIC SALVATION OUTLINE The three sections of Christ s ministry: The first section of His earthly ministry, accomplished by Him judicially in the flesh from His incarnation to His death.
[49]  The second section of His heavenly ministry, carried out by Him as the life-giving Spirit, organically in the mystical realm, from His resurrection to the end of the millennium.
[50]  The third section of His sevenfold intensified heavenly ministry, carried out by Him as the sevenfold intensified life-giving Spirit, sevenfold intensified organically in the mystical realm, from the degradation of the church to the full consummation of the New Jerusalem.
[51]  The secret of the intensified work of God s organic salvation: The degradation of the church: At the end of the apostle Paul s ministry, around the A.D. 60s: All the believers in Asia turned away from him 2 Tim 1:15.
[52]  The words, listed as follows, concerning the compounded, all-inclusive, life-giving, and indwelling Spirit, unveil also the secret of God s organic salvation: The consummated Spirit as the second Paraclete the Comforter , the realization of Christ as the first Paraclete, takes care of the believers, especially in the matter of the Divine Trinity being the main, life element of the organic salvation of God John 14:16-18.
[53]  Essentially You are the second One of the Trinity, yet economically You first became flesh, then You became the life-giving Spirit, and now You are the intensified sevenfold Spirit.
[54]  In considering the secret of the intensified work of God s organic salvation, the first matter we need to pay attention to is the degradation of the church.
[55]  The sevenfold intensified Spirit, as the seven Spirits, is the seven eyes of the Lamb sent forth into all the earth, searching and infusing all the churches and all the saints with His eyes 5:6 .
[56]  The believers need to be saved also from the worldliness in union with the world as a marriage and the teaching of Balaam and the Nicolaitans in the church in Pergamos vv.
[57]  D. The Father strengthens the believers, according to the riches of His glory, with power through His Spirit into the believers inner man, for Christ to make His home in the believers heart that they may be filled unto the fullness of the Triune God for His corporate expression Eph 3:16-19 . When Christ has the freedom to make His home in our heart, then we will be filled unto all the fullness of the Triune God to be the Body to express the Triune God corporately.
