[1]  CONTENTS Its Significance and Its Base Its Gates Its Wall and Its Foundations Its Furnishings Its Supply
[2]  THE APPLICATION OF THE INTERPRETATION OF THE NEW JERUSALEM TO THE SEEKING BELIEVERS MESSAGE ONE ITS SIGNIFICANCE AND ITS BASE Scripture Reading: Rev 21:2-3, 9-10, 18b, 21b-22; 22:1-2 OUTLINE Its significance: The New Jerusalem is the greatest and the ultimate sign in the Scriptures Rev 21:2, 9-10.
[3]  It signifies an organic constitution of the processed Triune God mingled with His regenerated, transformed, and glorified tripartite elect: According to its humanity, it is the tabernacle of God among men the dwelling place of God in His humanity among men on the earth 21:3.
[4]  According to its divinity, it is the temple of God as the dwelling place of His redeemed elect 21:22.
[5]  According to its divinity, it is the divine Husband the redeeming God in His consummated embodiment, Christ, with the human life and nature of God's redeemed elect.
[6]  Prayer: Lord, we thank You that we could have this conference with thousands of seekers coming here to seek after You according to Your revelation and vision.
[7]  According to its humanity, the New Jerusalem is the human wife with the divine life and nature of the Lamb the redeeming God 21:2, 9 .
[8]  The river of water of life, signifying the Spirit, proceeds from this administration in the middle of the New Jerusalem's street as the supply to the entire city v. 1a . In the river grows the tree of life, signifying Christ, as the main supply to the entire city through the river v. 2 . The divine and human communication, signified by the street, proceeds from this glorious center to reach all twelve gates of the city, in order to bring the entire city into the submission to the one divine administration and to blend the entire city into the oneness of the one divinity-mingled-with-humanity communication, fellowship 21:21b .
[9]  From the throne proceeds the river of water of life, signifying the Spirit, and this Spirit is God's flowing out.
[10]  THE APPLICATION OF THE INTERPRETATION OF THE NEW JERUSALEM TO THE SEEKING BELIEVERS MESSAGE TWO ITS GATES Scripture Reading: Rev 21:12b-13, 21a OUTLINE Its gates are pearls Rev 21:21a: Signifying the issue of the secretion of Christ's redeeming and life-releasing death and His life-dispensing resurrection.
[11]  Both kinds of secretion dispensing require the seeking believers' daily experience of the death of Christ subjectively by the power of Christ's resurrection that they may be conformed to the death of Christ Phil 3:10 , and their daily experience of the resurrection of Christ subjectively by the bountiful supply of the Spirit the reality of resurrection of Jesus Christ that they may be conformed to the image of the firstborn Son of God Phil 1:19; Rom 8:29 .
[12]  Its entry Rev 21:12b-13: Such an entry into the New Jerusalem to partake of the tree of life has been established by Christ through His death and resurrection, fulfilling the righteous requirements of God according to the law of Israel in the Old Testament so that the closed way to the tree of life is reopened to the seeking believers.
[13]  This reopened way to partake of the tree of life by entering into the New Jerusalem is universally available to the four directions of the earth with three gates on each of the four sides of the holy city, signifying that the processed and consummated Triune God is willingly open to receive the repentant sinners into the ultimate consummation of His eternal economy.
[14]  Now we come to the second application of the New Jerusalem, which is altogether related to the gates.
[15]  This is the entry of being crucified on the cross to be conformed to the mold of Christ's death and the entry of His resurrection, which will conform us by the Spirit into the image of the glory of the firstborn Son of God.
[16]  We can fulfill the righteous requirements of God's law by being persons who have died and resurrected with Christ through His twofold secretion, making us a pearl before the eyes of God, which is fully satisfactory to God according to His righteousness of the law.
[17]  THE APPLICATION OF THE INTERPRETATION OF THE NEW JERUSALEM TO THE SEEKING BELIEVERS MESSAGE THREE ITS WALL AND ITS FOUNDATIONS Scripture Reading: Rev 21:12a, 14a, 18a, 19-20; 4:3a OUTLINE Its wall and its foundations are precious stones Rev 21:18a, 19-20: We, the believers in Christ, were created by God with dust Gen 2:7 .
[18]  Through our regeneration by the Spirit we became stones John 1:42 .
[19]  By our growth in the divine life in Christ as the living stone 1 Pet 2:4 , we are transformed into precious stones 1 Cor 3:12a : By the transformation of the Spirit 2 Cor 3:18.
[20]  All the stones of its wall and the first layer of its foundations are jasper Rev 21:18a, 19a , and the jasper stone signifies the appearance of God 4:3a , indicating that the entire city is in the appearance of God in His glory 21:11 .
[21]  Prayer: Lord, what a blessing that so many of us could be gathered by You and around You to study Your Word, so that we may see the revelation and have the way to apply what we have been seeing.
[22]  Lord, be with us, even making us one spirit with You.
[23]  Some say that it is a heresy to believe that we are born of God to be His children and that we are God's family and have become God in life and in nature but not in the Godhead.
[24]  B. The Use of Fire and Water in Eternity
[25]  This indicates that of the two destructive elements, water and fire, used by God to destroy all His opposers, one of them, that is, fire, will be used by God for this purpose for eternity, and the other, that is, water, will be prohibited from its destructive function by the guarantee of God's unfailing faithfulness signified by the colors of the city's foundations.
[26]  THE APPLICATION OF THE INTERPRETATION OF THE NEW JERUSALEM TO THE SEEKING BELIEVERS MESSAGE FOUR ITS FURNISHINGS Scripture Reading: Rev 22:1; 21:16, 22-24a, 25; 22:3b, 5 OUTLINE Its throne 22:1: The throne of God and of the Lamb the redeeming God: Founded on its base to be one with its base according to God's divine nature.
[27]  As the house palace of God the Father, who is the King of kings, and His household, His many sons, His royal family, who are the co-kings with the Father to be its reign 22:5b and who are the priests who serve God v. 3b ; hence, they are the royal priesthood, the kingly priesthood 1 Pet 2:9 . Its light 21:23-24a: Its light is God as the glory and the Lamb as the lamp the redeeming and shining God: The illuminating glory of God is the light within Christ.
[28]  Prayer: Lord, we are touching the highest and greatest matter in the whole universe.
[29]  ITS TEMPLE A. The Temple Being the Lord God the Almighty and the Lamb the Redeeming God
[30]  The holy city as the tabernacle of God is for God to dwell in, and the redeeming God as the temple is for the redeemed saints to dwell in. In the new heaven and new earth, the New Jerusalem will be a mutual dwelling place for God and man for eternity.
[31]  THE APPLICATION OF THE INTERPRETATION OF THE NEW JERUSALEM TO THE SEEKING BELIEVERS MESSAGE FIVE ITS SUPPLY Scripture Reading: Rev 22:1-2 OUTLINE Its supply is the processed and consummated Triune God 22:1-2: Signified by the river of water of life the Spirit and the throne of God the Father and of the Lamb the Son .
[32]  Proceeding out of the throne of God the administration of the divine authority.
[33]  Based on the nature of God, signified by gold as the base of God's throne.
[34]  I. ITS SUPPLY BEING THE PROCESSED AND CONSUMMATED TRIUNE GOD
[35]  The supply of the holy city is the processed and consummated Triune God Rev 22:1-2 .
[36]  Christ nourishes us and the Spirit quenches our thirst for our growth in the divine life, and the growth of the divine life is for the building up of the city as the organic constitution of the processed Triune God mingled with His regenerated, transformed, and glorified tripartite elect.
