[1]  Message Two The Word of God 2 The intrinsic, central line of the five historical events in the introduction to the Gospel of John as the "trunk" is that: In the Word, who is Christ as the definition, explanation, and expression of God, is life John 1:4a.
[2]  Message Three God God, as the second crystal in the writings of John, is unveiled as the fountain source of life: Flowing out to dispense Himself with His divine life as the life element, the life supply Christ as the tree of life , to meet the need of His elect and to be their pleasures and satisfaction Rev 22:1-2; cf.
[3]  Message Four The Processed Triune God The composition of the Gospel of John and the constitution of the spiritual things recorded in this Gospel are based upon not only the Triune God but also the processed Triune God.
[4]  Message Five The All-inclusive Christ 1 In addition to the items in the Old Testament unveiling the all-unlimitedness of Christ in God's commission to Him, as God's anointed One, for the universe, for fallen man, and for God's kingdom.
[5]  In His perfect redemption through His death judicially and in His complete salvation by His life organically for the carrying out of God's eternal economy, He is: God, who is the source of all things and especially the source of the divine life that flows out for its dispensing into God's elect as their life and everything John 1:1, 14; 20:28; Rom 9:5.
[6]  In Bethel, the house of God, Christ is the heavenly ladder that brings heaven to earth and joins earth to heaven as well v. 51 ; the consummation of this is the New Jerusalem Rev 21:2 . In doing all these things for God's economy, Christ is the Messiah, the Christ of God v. 41 . The temple of God John 2:15-22 , which Christ called His Father's house, firstly referring to Christ individually before His resurrection and then referring to Christ with His believers as His increase corporately after His resurrection to be God's permanent dwelling place in the spiritual world.
[7]  Message Six The All-inclusive Christ 2 In His perfect redemption through His death judicially and in His complete salvation by His life organically for the carrying out of God's eternal economy, He is: The Feast of the Passover John 6:4: It is the first feast of all the feasts ordained by God for His people Lev 23:5 , typifying that Christ is the beginning of our enjoyment of Him that originates our spiritual life.
[8]  In the enjoyment of Christ we must eat His flesh and drink His blood that we may have His eternal life John 6:54 and eat Him as the heavenly bread that we may live forever v. 58 through His word, which is spirit and life to us v. 63 . The Feast of Tabernacles John 7:2: John in his Gospel refers to us firstly the Feast of the Passover as the beginning of our enjoyment of Christ for the initiation of God's redemption judicially.
[9]  Message Seven The All-inclusive Christ 3 In His perfect redemption...,He is: The Shepherd, the door, the pasture, and the flock John 10:11, 14, 16, 7, 9: Christ, with the commission He received of God to accomplish God's eternal economy, has to be the Shepherd of the flock of God, which is His Body that consummates the New Jerusalem.
[10]  Message Eight The Consummated Spirit Before the consummation of the Spirit, He was: The Spirit of God in God's creation Gen 1:2.
[11]  by God with His Glory The Gospel of John, a full revelation of Christ as the Word of God defining God and revealing God, is composed of two sections: The first section, from 1:1 to 12:19, unveils: Christ's becoming flesh in His incarnation.
[12]  Message Ten The Organism of the Processed and Consummated Triune God
[13]  Message Twelve The Apostolic Ministry in Cooperation with Christ's Heavenly Ministry The Gospel of John has twenty-one chapters, but it actually ends with chapter 20.
