[1]  CONTENTS God's Plan of Redemption God's Plan of Redemption Fully Accomplished God's Plan of Redemption Appropriated and Manifested
[2]  He is talking with His servant Job of His creative power and in exquisite poetry represents Himself as the Master Workman sending forth into space the earthly orb to complete the delicate harmony of the spheres, and over which the "sons of God," i.e., the angels, "shouted for joy."
[3]  We are also enabled to see what sin really is.
[4]  All of the diabolical plans of his corrupted wisdom; all the deceit and subtle, crafty working of his great power, are but manifestations of the sin in his heart when he said, "I will" I instead of God; therefore we may define sin as an attitude of wilful, deliberate resistance to the authority of God.
[5]  The result of Satan's first experience in independent rulership is shown in verse 2 of the first chapter of Genesis.
[6]  Let us read it as found in the Rotherham translation of the Old Testament, which more clearly follows the Hebrew than does the A.V. "Now the earth had become waste and wild and darkness was on the face of the roaring deep." Notice that the emphasis is upon the earth, or earthly sphere, which was the dominion of Satan.
[7]  While much might be said concerning each sentence of this wonderful chapter, we are most concerned with those words that speak of the creation of man.
[8]  In verse 26 we read, "And God said, Let us make man in our image after our likeness."
[9]  This threefoldness is true of God in connection with all of His acts; therefore while we read in Genesis 1:1 that God created the universe, we also read in John 1:3 that all things were created by the Eternal Son, the Logos the Word God visualized; and we also read of the work of the Holy Spirit in reference to creation.
[10]  God is a thinking, choosing, loving Being, and all of His activities are for the realization of a well-defined purpose which shall completely satisfy His heart; therefore in creating man in His image, we may clearly see that He created him a being capable of making a definite choice concerning a perceived goal which should completely satisfy the longing of his heart as well as the heart of God.
[11]  God wanted beings who should share His Nature and return His Love.
[12]  Until he should use his power of choice contrary to the perceived will of God, he would possess human righteousness and holy tendencies, but he would not be a child of God for he would not have one spark of the Uncreated Life of God.
[13]  We may picture the Lord God, the Eternal Son, the manifested God, forming the body of the first man out of the dust of the earth that He had previously created; then imparting to the lifeless clay the human life-principle and creating at the same instant the wonderful inner man so prepared that it could choose His Life and be to His glory, joy and satisfaction.
[14]  The terms "inner man" and "outer man," or their equivalents, are employed in modern psychology, but the psychology of the Bible is more analytical inasmuch as it indicates a subdivision of the invisible part of man, thus teaching us that man is not dichotomous but is a trichotomous being.
[15]  We read in Genesis 2:8, "The Lord God planted a garden eastward in Eden; and there He put the man whom He had created."
[16]  Our attention is particularly drawn to the trees of this garden, of which there seem to be three distinct kinds, in respect to the purpose of God in their creation; for we read in verse 9 that the Lord God made "to grow every tree that is pleasant to the sight," i.e., shade trees indicating that God delights to gratify the perception of beauty with which He has endowed man and trees "good for food," i.e., fruit and nut trees which furnished man all that he needed for physical sustenance; and "the tree of life also in the midst of the garden, and the tree of knowledge of good and evil."
[17]  Is it not probable that the same Lord God who gave to Moses the plan of that wonderful tabernacle in the wilderness, every appointment of which was a symbol of Eternal Truth, and who instituted that elaborate system of sacrificial offerings, every detail of which spoke of Him in connection with His redeeming work at Calvary, should even here at the very beginning of human history teach by symbol the truths which He wished them to know?
[18]  We now come to a narrative that would be utterly unintelligible had not God given us the clue to a clear understanding of the same through other portions of His Written Word.
[19]  However, as we read the words uttered by the serpent, we realize that this reptile cannot be the real tempter; for reptiles are on the plane of animal life, which we have found to be below the plane of self-consciousness; and not only do these few words reveal self-consciousness but marvelous intellectual powers, a dominant will and God-consciousness as well.
[20]  The scientific definition of death helps us to perceive His meaning.
[21]  Each form of life has a definite goal which the invisible but inherent life-principle causes it to reach.
[22]  All that any life-principle can do is to bring to manifestation and maturity the life on that particular plane; e.g., the life-principle in the lily bulb will produce the lily life, and, if unhindered, will cause all the characteristics of that life to reach their perfection; but the life-principle in the lily can never produce bird life, nor can the life-principle in the egg of the bird do more than to cause the manifestation of the bird life.
[23]  As we carefully ponder these words we find that two figures are employed: the architectural and the parental, and they are peculiarly blended.
[24]  Just as an architect conceives in his mind a wonderful group of buildings, and proceeds to draw a plan of the same a plan showing each detail in its relation to the whole and to the various portions so God, the Great Architect, has outlined in His Written Word, His wondrous, glorious conception of a "city" composed of many buildings, each one of which is a glorified human being "the city which hath foundation, whose Architect and Builder is God" Heb 11:10 , and which is for His not man's dwelling place.
[25]  In Ephesians 1:5 we see that the individual buildings in this city are called "sons" and we are shown that the ultimate purpose of God is this that the human beings whom He has created shall partake of His Life which He has stored for them in the Eternal Son, and that this Life shall so transform them that eventually they will be conformed to His Image.
[26]  This uniting of two planes of life in one personality would present to the world a unique Being "The God-Man."
[27]  In entering upon the second section of these studies it is necessary that the members of the class should have a fair understanding of the subjects presented in Section One.
[28]  Man's Created Right to the Tree of Life Forfeited
[29]  We now need to read Genesis 3:22-24, a passage, which if rightly understood, conveys the precious hope of Redemption and glorious sonship to the members of the human race.
[30]  Let us read the passage from the Rotherham translation: "Then said Yahweh God Lo! man hath become like one of us, in respect of knowing good and evil.
[31]  Now therefore lest he thrust forth his hand and take even of the tree of life, and eat and live to times age abiding So Yahweh God put him forth from the Garden of Eden, to till the ground wherefrom he had been taken.
[32]  Yahweh God or Jehovah Elohim is translated Lord God in the A.V. This expression is not found in the Bible until after the creation of man.
[33]  We have already spoken of the manifestation of God's Love and Holiness in redeeming the human race as one decisive act.
[34]  Therefore, after Jesus Christ, in His earthly walk, had manifested a dependent, holy, victorious life as the Last Adam, living in the sphere of Uncreated Eternal Life, He was ready to act representatively in connection with the race of the First Adam, with whom He had identified Himself.
[35]  The class should now read the account of the Crucifixion as narrated in the four Gospels.
[36]  God was still His environment, but an awful something that He had never experienced before was pressing upon His human nature a something that did not respond to God a something that was causing untold agony that something was the great mountain of human sin which was crushing His human soul.
[37]  But now let us more seriously examine the substitutionary aspect of His death.
[38]  Call attention to the fact that Christ remained forty days upon earth in His Resurrection body; then, after promising to send the "Comforter," His Other Self, to them, He ascended to heaven, from which He told them that He would return in visible form, and requested them to watch for His appearing.
[39]  Up through the realm of the defeated enemy Satan, the usurper the God-Man passed in triumph, having shaken off from Himself the hostile princes and rulers whom He "boldly displayed as His conquests, when by the Cross He triumphed over them" Col 2:15, Weymouth .
[40]  The Activities of the Holy Spirit in Connection with Our Appropriation
[41]  We now need to consider how we are to appropriate all that God has for us in Christ Jesus: In other words, how may these truths that we have considered objectively become ours experimentally?
[42]  We found in a previous lesson that the threefoldness of God is to be considered in connection with every act of God.
[43]  For the purpose of clear thinking, we will now speak of the activities of God the Holy Spirit in enabling sinful human beings to perceive and appropriate the Redemptive Work planned by God the Father and executed by God the Son.
[44]  Regeneration is a birth relationship with God, instantaneous and indissoluble.
[45]  When a sinner is willing to admit his sinful, lost condition, and definitely turns to God from sin appropriating the Life of God in Christ Jesus that very instant he becomes a child of God, and through all Eternity will be a Child of God; for he is put within the sphere of Eternal Life; therefore he now possesses in his spirit a Life that will remain there as long as God lives.
[46]  The teacher will now need to call attention to God's ultimate purpose concerning the life of the regenerated one.
[47]  We have already seen that God marked out the redeemed before the founding of the world to be conformed to the Image of His Son.
[48]  And we have further seen that He had in mind the glorified Last Adam, when He created the first Adam; therefore God's purpose for His redeemed one is that he shall become like The Man in the Glory.
[49]  These: Complete dedication of the entire personality to God, and continual reckoning upon His working within, both to "will and to do of His good pleasure"; thus transforming from "one degree of glory to another," until Christ shall be fully formed within the personality.
[50]  Is not the failure in connection with the realization of experimental victory over sin, due to the fact that we have not perceived the need of definitely appropriating our individual infilling with the Anointing of the Holy Spirit which was poured upon Christ our Head, and which was to include each member of His body?
[51]  It is true that we have a measure of the Holy Spirit when we are regenerated, for one cannot be "born again" without the Spirit of God; but that is not knowing Him in His fullness.
[52]  We now need to note the inward results of the Abandonment to the Holy Spirit.
[53]  The Christian perceives that the death that Christ died as our Representative was a "death unto sin" Rom 6:10 , and that he is identified with Christ in this death; also that as Christ arose to a sphere wherein sin does not exist, but where Righteousness reigns, even so he is identified with Christ in this new life; and as a result of his "reckoning" or acting upon this truth, he realizes victory in his daily life, through the indwelling Holy Spirit who corroborates what God says, as he reckons upon it.
[54]  The God-Man in His earthly life had no sin in Him, yet He constantly refused to let His human emotions or affections shape His ministry; nor would He be led by His own unsullied intellect apart from the revealed will of God.
[55]  Emphasize the fact that the act of dedication, like the new birth, is instantaneous, but transformation is a process; also, that "being filled with the Holy Spirit," an expression found in the New Testament and often quoted by earnest Christians, does not denote a finality.
[56]  If there is a veil upon his face, he will see imperfectly; therefore, he must so yield to God that the veil shall be taken away.
[57]  If we see Christ in His Substitutionary work only, we shall not be able to manifest His Victory over sin and Satan; or, in other words, if we do not see Him as our Representative in every respect, the Holy Spirit will not be able to cause a manifestation of His Life in our daily lives.
[58]  It may be well for the members of the class to memorize the following sentences as a concise summary of the lessons studied:
[59]  Christ died that the sin-question of the human race might be settled in such a manner that God could consistently bestow sonship upon any one who should choose to receive the same.
[60]  This was God's first method of teaching human beings, but man's disobedience to the revealed will of God necessitated another method of teaching; therefore we see the "slain lamb," and perceive that identification with the sin-bearer was now the revelation of God to sinful man.
[61]  The teacher should again call attention to the fact that each member of this great company of the glorified redeemed has been saved by "grace through faith."
[62]  Having considered the organic unity of believers as indicated by the figure of the "Body of Christ," let us now consider their unity from the standpoint of love and devotedness.
[63]  It is significant that this most glorious event the Marriage Supper of the Lamb is placed by the inspiring Spirit of truth just here in chapter 19 , and not in chapter 4 or 5; for there is where it would seem necessary to assign it a place if they are right who hold that the Church of God, the Bride of Christ, is wholly removed, once and for all, from the world before the time spoken of in the vision of chapter 4.
[64]  The Great Harlot the Antithesis of the Bride of the Lamb
[65]  The attention of the Bible student should now be directed to the next event in connection with the manifestation of Christ's Redemptive work.
[66]  Here is a city of God, and it is at the same time a city of man.
[67]  Now we see the Paradise of God, of which the Edenic Paradise was a type; and here is "the river of water of life bright as crystal, proceeding out of the throne of God and of the Lamb"; and here also is the Tree of Life; not the literal tree of Eden, but that which the literal tree symbolized.
[68]  We have traced the appropriation and manifestation of Redemption from age to age, and now let us consider what should be the attitude of the Christian in view of the wonderful revelation that God has given us.
[69]  There must be a constant recognition of our identification with our Crucified, Risen, Victorious, Ascended Lord, and definite reckoning upon His Life, moment by moment, if we are to demonstrate the completeness of His Redemptive work as fully as He desires, before He comes.
