[1]  Crucial Truths in the Holy Scriptures, Vol. 5 CONTENTS
[2]  In order for the children of God, especially new believers, to receive a greater supply of the Word, we, by the Lord s grace, wish to present some crucial truths in the Holy Scriptures so that the children of God may receive a foundation in the Word of God.
[3]  CHAPTER FORTY-SEVEN OBTAINING THE REWARD OUTLINE The difference between reward and salvation.
[4]  The third aspect of the reward is to obtain authority.
[5]  This also is a promise from the Lord Himself.
[6]  This reward will be given to believers who overcome by obeying the Lord s commandments to the uttermost.
[7]  Thus, the reward spoken of in this verse will be given at the time of the Lord s return.
[8]  To enter into the kingdom of the heavens is to participate in the heavenly reality of God s goal so that we can enter into its heavenly manifestation in the millennial kingdom and enjoy God s authority and glory.
[9]  If we want to understand the kingdom of the heavens, we must be clear concerning these three aspects.
[10]  Within the sphere of the appearance of the kingdom of the heavens, Christendom, there are genuine believers and false believers, righteousness and unrighteousness, truth and heresy, and things of the Lord and things of the devil.
[11]  The second aspect of the kingdom of the heavens is the reality of the kingdom of the heavens.
[12]  A kingdom is a realm where authority is exercised.
[13]  The reality is the ruling of the heavens, which governs us, restricts us, and causes us to submit to God s authority in all things so that we may be one with God in the heavens in all situations.
[14]  They are also light in the dark world, eliminating the darkness v. 14 . They live in a heavenly realm and do not allow the light of Christ in them to be hidden by anything earthly; instead, they are like a light shining in a dark place v. 15 . Through their actions, they shine out God who is light before men, causing others to see God and the light of His glory in them v. 16 . These matters refer to their influence on the world from their living in the reality of the kingdom of the heavens.
[15]  The manifestation of the kingdom of the heavens on earth involves the reigning and governing of Christ and His overcoming saints on the earth with heavenly authority for one thousand years.
[16]  Whoever is faithful in serving the Lord today will be called by the Lord into the manifestation of the kingdom of the heavens when He returns; he will be in the manifestation of the kingdom of the heavens, ruling the world and entering into the joy of the Lord.
[17]  Those who have been martyred for the Lord in every age and the overcoming believers who have died will be resurrected in that day and given authority in the millennial kingdom to reign with Christ, rule the nations, and judge the peoples, bringing the authority of God and Christ to men.
[18]  This proves that both the nation of Israel in the Old Testament and the church in the New Testament are the kingdom of God, being parts of the kingdom of God.
[19]  The millennium refers to the time after Christ comes again as King to rule the world and before the new heaven and new earth Rev 20:4-6 .
[20]  All the believers who are being disciplined in the reality of the kingdom of the heavens today will enter into the heavenly portion of the millennium in the future to enjoy the glory and gladness of the kingdom and reign with the Lord as kings over the nations for a thousand years.
[21]  Therefore, the millennium is the period of Christ s reigning over the world as King, whereas the kingdom of the heavens referring to the manifestation of the kingdom of the heavens is the heavenly portion of the millennium in which Christ and the overcoming saints will reign as kings over the world Rev 2:26-27; 20:4-6; 2 Tim 2:12; Matt 19:28; 20:21, 23; Luke 19:17, 19 .
[22]  The kingdom which the Lord, the Messiah, will restore the kingdom of Messiah, or the kingdom of Israel to be restored in the future Acts 1:6 is the earthly portion of the millennium, the tabernacle of David, which the Lord will rebuild 15:16 , and the kingdom that God has prepared from the foundation of the world for the sheep who are to be the people on the earth during the millennium Matt 25:32-34 .
[23]  The Bible also speaks of the third heaven where God and the Lord Jesus dwell 2 Cor 12:2 .
[24]  The kingdom of the heavens is a kingdom, the ruling of the heavens today, wherein the seeking believers are submitting to the heavenly authority and receiving the heavenly discipline, control, and training.
[25]  In the future the kingdom of the heavens will be the manifestation of the ruling of the heavens during the millennial kingdom.
[26]  The appearance of the kingdom of the heavens has a very wide scope, including all who are called Christians, regardless of whether they are real or false.
[27]  All those who are in the church are also in the kingdom of God, because during the dispensation of the church, the church is the kingdom of God.
[28]  Although the believers who are defeated and the believers who are in the reality of the kingdom of the heavens are both in the church and in the kingdom of God, the defeated ones have lost the heavenly position of the church and have neglected the divine life of the kingdom of God.
[29]  The salvation of God has delivered them into the kingdom of the heavens, placing them in such an exalted position, but due to their insubordination to the ruling of the kingdom of the heavens and their disobedience to the heavenly ruling and discipline, they have fallen away from the reality of the kingdom of the heavens.
[30]  May we not lose the heavenly position of the church nor neglect the divine life of the kingdom of God but be disciplined in the reality of the kingdom of the heavens today so that we may reign with Him in the manifestation of the kingdom of the heavens in the future.
[31]  The kingdom of the heavens is divided into two periods: the period of its appearance and reality and the period of its manifestation.
[32]  The appearance and reality of the kingdom begins, progresses, and ends with the church age.
[33]  When the Lord Jesus cast out demons, He manifested the authority of God before the Jews, but that was simply the kingdom of God coming to them, not the kingdom of the heavens.
[34]  The preceding section provides a sketch of the beginning and ending of the kingdom of the heavens and its process.
[35]  The Gospel of Matthew, however, contains twelve parables that provide details concerning the process of the kingdom of the heavens.
[36]  This parable speaks of the time before the coming of the kingdom of the heavens by showing what happened when the Lord was sowing the seed in preparation.
[37]  In this parable the Lord does not say, The kingdom of the heavens has become like cf. v. 24 or the kingdom of the heavens is like cf. v. 31 , because at that time the kingdom of the heavens had not yet come.
[38]  The seed that the Lord sowed, the word He planted, was the word of the kingdom of the heavens that was to gain and prepare people to be the sons of the kingdom of the heavens.
[39]  The seed that the Lord sowed in the preceding parable becomes the sons of the kingdom v. 38 in this parable; they are the true believers the wheat . Just after the church was established on the day of Pentecost, the Lord s servants were not watchful the men slept , and the devil began to mix false believers tares in among the true believers.
[40]  Then the Lord will send angels to weed out the false believers from the world, that is, out of His kingdom, because the world will become His kingdom when He returns, and the false believers will be thrown into the lake of fire where they will be eternally punished Rev 11:15; Matt 13:28-30 .
[41]  Once the false believers are separated from the true believers, the outward appearance of the kingdom of the heavens Christendom will end. At that time all true believers will be raptured to the air the wheat being gathered into the barn . From that point forward, the overcoming believers the righteous will be in the manifestation of the kingdom of the heavens, that is, in the kingdom of their Father, and will shine with the light of glory just like Christ the sun .
[42]  Prior to this, the Lord will send an angel to preach an eternal gospel to those on the earth casting a net into the sea to tell them that: 1 they must fear God because the people on the earth will persecute God s people, the believers who are left on earth during the great tribulation; and 2 they must worship God because Antichrist will require the people on earth to worship his image Rev 14:6-7 .
[43]  The age of the law relates to the kingdom of God v. 43 , but the age of grace relates to the kingdom of the heavens 22:2 . In the age of law, God requires man to labor and work to produce fruit for Him, but in the age of grace, God has prepared all things for man to receive v. 4 . If we would answer His call and come, we can freely enjoy everything that He has prepared for us.
[44]  Therefore, God became angry and caused the Roman prince Titus to lead an army in A.D. 70 to destroy the Jews who had rejected the gospel and killed the apostles and to burn down Jerusalem Luke 21:20-24 . Later, God sent His servants to the crossroads and the streets the Gentiles to preach the gospel of the kingdom all over the earth Matt 24:14 and to call people to enter into the kingdom by gaining kingdom people from all the nations 28:19 . As a result, many answered the call and were saved.
[45]  However, the one who received the smallest gift one talent did not utilize his gift for the Lord dug in the earth and hid his master s money, v. 18 and did not use it to help others to earn interest deposited the money with the money changers, v. 27 . When the Lord returns, He will judge the believers work settle accounts with them, v. 19 . All believers will be raptured to stand before the Lord s judgment seat to be judged the master of the slaves came and settled accounts with them, v. 19; see also 2 Cor 5:10 , and each one will tell the Lord what he did Rom 14:10, 12 . Those who faithfully used their gift gained will be praised by Him and will enter into the manifestation of the kingdom of the heavens to rule in the kingdom and enter into His joy in the kingdom.
[46]  After seeing the above points we can understand an overview of the beginning and ending of the kingdom of the heavens and its process.
[47]  The kingdom of the heavens was a hidden mystery from the creation of the world.
[48]  It was near because the Lord preached the gospel of the kingdom of the heavens, defined the kingdom of the heavens, and sent the disciples forth into all the places of Judea to tell the Jews that the kingdom of the heavens was near and that they should prepare to enter into it.
[49]  Most believers today think that entering the kingdom of the heavens means to be saved, that is, to obtain eternal life.
[50]  We need to see the scriptural meaning of entering the kingdom of the heavens.
[51]  Entering the Kingdom of the Heavens Being Different from Eternal Salvation
[52]  By grace you have been saved Eph 2:8; see also 2 Tim 1:9 ; compare with The crown of righteousness, with which the Lord, the righteous Judge, will recompense me 2 Tim 4:8 .
[53]  Ephesians 2:8 and 2 Timothy 1:9 show that salvation is by grace on God s side and through faith on man s side.
[54]  Thus, these two portions of the Bible show that we are saved by God s grace today and that we will obtain a reward and enter into the manifestation of the kingdom of the heavens according to God s righteousness in the future.
[55]  Entering the Kingdom of the Heavens Being Different from Entering into the Kingdom of God
[56]  Unless one is born anew...he cannot enter into the kingdom of God John 3:3, 5 ; compare with Unless you turn and become like little children, you shall by no means enter into the kingdom of the heavens Matt 18:3 .
[57]  Regeneration means to obtain the life of God in addition to one s natural life.
[58]  Here the Lord tells us that what a person leaves for His sake, for His gospel s sake, for His name s sake, and for His kingdom s sake, he will receive a hundred times as much at this time, and in the coming age, eternal life.
[59]  I do not account of myself to have laid hold; but one thing I do: Forgetting the things which are behind and stretching forward to the things which are before, I pursue toward the goal for the prize to which God in Christ Jesus has called me upward Phil 3:13-14; see also 1 Cor 9:24; 2 Tim 4:7-8 .
[60]  There remains a Sabbath rest for the people of God...Let us therefore be diligent to enter into that rest ; Let us fear therefore, lest, a promise of being left of entering into His rest, any one of you may seem to have come short of it Heb 4:9, 11, 1 .
[61]  This is a type showing that even though believers have received redemption by the Lord s blood and escaped from slavery under Satan, they still need to enter into the manifestation of the kingdom of the heavens to enjoy its blessings.
[62]  Since believers will fully enjoy glory, blessing, and joy in the coming kingdom, the Holy Spirit in Hebrews 4 calls this coming kingdom the millennial kingdom a rest.
[63]  Although we can be priests to God and serve Him today and also reign with Him with heavenly authority over our environment today, we must wait to enter the kingdom of the heavens in order to be fully manifested as priests and kings to God.
[64]  If we enter the kingdom of the heavens at the time of the Lord s return, we will obtain the reward, enjoy eternal life in the coming age, enjoy the birthright of the church, be priests and kings to God, inherit the earth, enter into the rest in which our souls are satisfied with enjoyment, and enter into the Lord s complete salvation.
[65]  Therefore, if we want to enter the kingdom of the heavens, obey heavenly authority, and submit to heavenly control, we must have a change in our mind that causes our life to turn in the opposite direction; that is, we must turn from Satan to God, from earth to the heavens, and from indulgence in lawlessness to obedience to heavenly authority with submission to heavenly control.
[66]  Blessed are those who are persecuted for the sake of righteousness, for theirs is the kingdom of the heavens Matt 5:10 .
[67]  The kingdom of the heavens is righteousness, and the kingdom is where God carries out His righteousness and exercises His authority.
[68]  Therefore, if we want to participate in the kingdom of the heavens, we must be righteous and even be willing to be persecuted for the sake of righteousness, that is, to be persecuted for holding on to righteousness.
[69]  If we cannot suffer persecution for the sake of righteousness in this evil world today, we cannot reign because of righteousness in God s righteous kingdom.
[70]  Matthew 5:3, 10, 20, and 7:21 are not the only portions that speak of conditions for entering the kingdom of the heavens.
[71]  Actually, the Lord s entire speaking on the mountain in Matthew 5 7 presents conditions for entering the kingdom of the heavens.
[72]  In chapter 5 these include matters such as mourning, being meek, hungering and thirsting for righteousness, being merciful, broad, and gracious toward others, being pure in heart toward God and wanting only God, being a peacemaker, rejoicing when being reproached or persecuted for the Lord s sake, being the salt of the earth and eliminating corruption, being a light in this dark age to dispel the darkness, not being angry in the flesh, forgiving others and asking their forgiveness, not following one s choice in the matter of witnessing, and pursuing perfection.
[73]  In chapter 6 these include giving alms, praying and fasting in secret to serve God, praying for the Lord s grace and seeking the Lord Himself by spending time to obtain the Lord s presence and to live before Him, sanctifying God s name and looking for the coming of God s kingdom, not enjoying the world or the things in the world, not being touched by earthly riches, not being anxious for clothing or food, serving God, relying on God, and living in God to pursue His kingdom.
[74]  In chapter 7 these include not judging others, not counting the faults of others and not overlooking one s own faults, being restricted by the Holy Spirit and being willing to treat others as one would want to be treated, entering by the narrow gate and walking on the straight way, not blindly following others, and always living and acting by the Lord s word.
[75]  He therefore who will humble himself like this little child, he is the greatest in the kingdom of the heavens Matt 18:3-4 .
[76]  Humbling oneself and being lowly are also conditions for entering the kingdom of the heavens.
[77]  There are no proud or self-important people in the kingdom of the heavens; everyone in the kingdom willingly humbles himself like a little child.
[78]  These verses show that those who would enter into the kingdom of the heavens to sit on thrones and enjoy the blessing of eternal life therein must leave everything for the Lord s name s sake today and follow Him.
[79]  No one who puts his hand on the plow and looks behind is fit for the kingdom of God Luke 9:62 .
[80]  The things of the world hinder people from pursuing the kingdom of God.
[81]  Anyone who is unwilling to give up the world and is constantly looking behind to the world is not worthy to enter the kingdom of God.
[82]  In order to pursue the kingdom of God, we cannot put our hand to the plow and look behind, wanting to obtain the kingdom of the heavens yet be unwilling to give up the world.
[83]  The works of the flesh...Those who practice such things will not inherit the kingdom of God....They who are of Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and its lusts Gal 5:19, 21, 24; see also 1 Cor 6:9-10; Eph 5:5 .
[84]  We must have holy words and actions, and we must keep ourselves far from sin and filthiness in order to inherit the kingdom of the heavens.
[85]  If we want to partake in the Lord s kingdom, we must also partake in the Lord s endurance.
[86]  The kingdom, which He promised to those who love Him James 2:5 .
[87]  If we want to inherit the kingdom of God in the future, we must be ones who love Him today.
[88]  Thus, if we want to enter into the kingdom of the Lord, the kingdom of the heavens, we must pursue the growth in life and have an abundant life.
[89]  Because of degradation in the church, the Lord has to call out some believers to be overcomers in this time of degradation in order to recover the heavenly, spiritual reality that was lost by the church, to fulfill the church s responsibility to live in the reality of the kingdom of the heavens, and to bring in the kingdom of the heavens.
[90]  If the church is in a proper condition, all the saints would love one another and be members one of another; they would do their best to keep the word of the Lord s endurance, obeying the Lord s word in all things; and they would not forsake His name in anything or have any name other than the Lord s. When the church is like this, she is an anti-testimony to this rebellious earth, which rejects the Lord.
[91]  We must recover our first love toward the Lord; we must endure persecution and trials, even being faithful unto death; we must not be mixed with the world, and we must refuse the clergy-laity system to escape from the organization of Christianity; we must forsake the heresies of Roman Catholicism and not be contaminated by idol worship or spiritual fornication; we must overcome the coldness and weakness of spiritual death; we must keep the word of the Lord s endurance and not forsake His name; we must not be self-satisfied but pursue with an empty heart, allowing the Lord a place within us for fellowship.
[92]  I saw thrones, and they sat upon them, and judgment was given to them.
[93]  And I saw the souls of those who had been beheaded because of the testimony of Jesus and because of the word of God, and of those who had not worshipped the beast nor his image, and had not received the mark on their forehead and on their hand; and they lived and reigned with Christ for a thousand years Rev 20:4 .
[94]  Those who are martyred for the testimony of Jesus, for the word of God, and for not worshipping the beast or his image Antichrist and his image or receiving his mark will reign with Christ.
[95]  Thus, being killed, or martyred, for the Lord fulfills a condition for entering the kingdom of the heavens.
[96]  God is obliged to place conditions on us because of His holiness and glory.
[97]  Although the Bible tells us that it is difficult to enter the kingdom of the heavens, we need not be afraid because our Father is well pleased to give us the kingdom.
[98]  We must pay a price, pass through many hardships, and endure many sufferings to enter the kingdom of the heavens, but the Lord tells us not to be afraid because our Father is well pleased to give us the kingdom.
[99]  We should believe the Lord s promises in His Word and give ourselves to God to allow Him to work in us and make us qualified to receive the kingdom that He desires to give to us.
[100]  If we are willing to stand upon the Lord s promises and offer ourselves to God by faith, He will certainly come in to do a work of grace in us and will continue to work in us to the extent that He has the position to give us the kingdom according to His pleasure.
[101]  God s promises concerning His kingdom are fulfilled by His power.
[102]  God is willing to promise us the kingdom because He has the power to accomplish this matter.
[103]  His power can meet all the requirements that His holiness and glory place on us for entering the kingdom of the heavens.
[104]  Only with difficulty will a rich man enter into the kingdom of the heavens...Who then can be saved?...With men this is impossible, but with God all things are possible Matt 19:23, 25-26 .
[105]  The Lord must do this to enable us to see that entering the kingdom of the heavens is absolutely impossible for us with our own power; only then will the Lord have the ground to work in us further in order to bring us into the kingdom of the heavens.
[106]  The New Testament also speaks about the blessings that the believers will receive when they enter the kingdom of the heavens in the future.
[107]  However, we must clearly see that these blessings are related to the kingdom of the heavens, not to the household of God.
[108]  But a household is not God s final goal; He wants to obtain the kingdom.
[109]  Our entrance into the kingdom of the heavens in the future is by means of the household, but our enjoyment in the kingdom will be related to the blessings of His glorious kingdom, which will far surpass our enjoyment of the blessings related to His household.
[110]  The crown received by the believers in the kingdom of the heavens is called a crown of glory because this crown expresses the Lord s glory and symbolizes that those who are in the kingdom are able to enjoy the Lord s glory together with Him.
[111]  To him I will give authority over the nations...as I also have received from My Father Rev 2:26-27; see also Luke 19:17, 19; Matt 25:21, 23 .
[112]  When the overcomers enter the kingdom of the heavens to reign, their main function will be to exercise authority and rule over the nations.
[113]  As kings, they will exercise authority for God, represent Him, and bring His authority to men; as priests, they will serve God, represent man, and bring man s needs to God.
[114]  Went in with him to the wedding feast ; I shall by no means drink of this product of the vine from now on until that day when I drink it new with you in the kingdom of My Father Matt 25:10; 26:29 .
[115]  The entire coming kingdom will be a feast; this feast will be what the Father has spread for His Son 22:2-14; Rev 19:9 , and it will be given to all His overcoming seekers throughout all the ages for their enjoyment with His Son Matt 8:11 .
[116]  In the kingdom of the heavens the overcomers will enjoy the feast that God has prepared for them from eternity with the Lord.
[117]  This enjoyment is available for all God s people, but before God, there is a hidden aspect of Christ, which is the hidden manna v. 33 . The hidden manna is not open for everyone; rather, it is hidden for the overcomers, who have rejected the world.
[118]  The Son of Man is to come...and then He will repay each man according to his doings Matt 16:27 .
[119]  When the Lord returns, He will repay each man according to his doings.
[120]  According to the context of this verse, the Lord s word does not refer to His judgment of worldly people; rather, it refers to His judgment of the believers, of the disciples who are following Him.
[121]  According to the Lord s teachings on the mountain, the phrase leads to destruction does not refer to perdition but to being unable to enter the kingdom of the heavens and encountering destruction; the phrase leads to life does not refer to the life obtained through salvation but to entering the kingdom of the heavens to enjoy it as a realm of eternal life.
[122]  Not everyone who says to Me, Lord, Lord, will enter into the kingdom of the heavens...Many will say to Me in that day, Lord, Lord, was it not in Your name that we prophesied, and in Your name cast out demons, and in Your name did many works of power?
[123]  If believers do not overcome, they will not be worthy of walking with the Lord in the kingdom, their names will be erased from the book of life during the age of the millennial kingdom, and the Lord will deny them before God and His angels.
[124]  He is in the heavenly Holy of Holies as the Mediator of this better covenant v. 15 . Therefore, the blood of this better covenant can purify our conscience and give us the boldness to enter the Holy of Holies to contact God, serve Him, and participate in the heavenly worship and service 10:19-22 . In this new covenant we also have God s law of life in us which enables us to know God without anyone teaching us 8:1 10:18 . This Epistle warns the Hebrew believers that they should not despise the Son of God and the new covenant He established and that they should not go back to Judaism to serve God with the old covenant offerings of the blood of bulls and goats.
[125]  In such a condition, there is only a certain fearful expectation of judgment and fervor of fire of the kind that consumes the adversaries v. 27 . Because some believers returned to Judaism to offer sacrifices of bulls and goats, they trampled the Son of God underfoot, placing Him on the same level with bulls and goats v. 29 . They also considered the blood of God s Son, which had sanctified them, as something common by putting it on the same level as the blood of bulls and goats v. 29 . When they did this, they not only considered the Son of God and His blood to be common; they also insulted the Spirit of grace the Greek word for insulted is different from the word blasphemed in Matthew 12:31 . The Holy Spirit was operating in them, leading them to simply believe and trust in the Son of God and in His blood and telling them not to return to Judaism to offer sacrifices of bulls and goats, but they insulted Him by ignoring Him.
[126]  The Question of Whether the Believers Punishment Proves That
[127]  Being judged by the Lord, we are disciplined ; The Father of spirits...disciplined...for what is profitable 1 Cor 11:32; Heb 12:9-10 .
[128]  Some believers think that the punishment of believers when the Lord returns shows that the Lord s salvation is not complete, but we know that His salvation is absolutely complete.
[129]  Even though the Lord s salvation is complete and we are saved, we can still be punished if we do not apply the Lord s salvation to a particular point or matter in our living.
[130]  If we apply the Lord s salvation to every matter, the Lord s salvation will save us from difficulties and temptations by the power of His indestructible life and wash us of our failures by the efficacy of His precious blood.
[131]  First John 1 shows that after we receive the Lord s life, we must confess our sins to God and ask Him to cleanse us whenever we sin v. 9 , and we must allow the Lord s blood to manifest its efficacy again and again v. 7 . If we do not confess to God, ask Him to cleanse us, and allow the Lord s blood to continually manifest its efficacy, God cannot forgive us even though the Lord s blood is efficacious.
[132]  God s future punishment of the believers is a matter of His government.
[133]  God has a governmental administration in the entire universe and even more so among His children.
[134]  God the Father s governmental discipline is so that His children, after receiving grace and being saved, can overcome sin, the world, and the self, follow His Son and live for Him, and accomplish His will in the power and grace of the Holy Spirit.
[135]  If we have some weakness or sins, we must take advantage of our time on the earth to confess and deal with them before God, asking Him to forgive and cleanse us.
[136]  God not only wants to obtain such a kingdom, but He also has set aside a portion of this kingdom as a reward for those who faithfully follow His Son, live for His Son, and are His Son s partners in accomplishing His will.
[137]  It is time for the judgment to begin from the house of God 1 Pet 4:17 .
[138]  God s purpose for the kingdom of the heavens is not only to encourage the believers but also to manifest His righteousness.
[139]  If believers who love themselves, care for their own enjoyment, seek their own profit, indulge their flesh, and live according to human feelings were to obtain the same reward of the kingdom in the future that brothers and sisters who love the Lord, care for God s glory, seek God s pleasure, reject the flesh, and live according to the Spirit will obtain, how could God s righteousness be maintained among His children?
[140]  If there were no kingdom age or if the kingdom of the heavens had not been set apart, God would not have anything that would serve to warn and encourage His children today in this age or to manifest His righteousness with regard to His children in the coming age.
[141]  What kind of persons ought you to be in holy manner of life and godliness, expecting and hastening the coming of the day of God 2 Pet 3:11-12 .
[142]  When believers pursue the kingdom of the heavens, they not only can obtain the kingdom of the heavens, but they also can hasten its coming.
[143]  When Peter speaks of hastening the coming of the day of God, he means hastening the coming of the kingdom of God, which is the coming of the kingdom of the heavens.
[144]  Revelation 12:10 shows that the kingdom of God comes because there is a group of overcomers in the church who overcome God s enemy, Satan vv.
[145]  Thus, the Lord wants us to pray for the kingdom of God to come and for His will to be done on earth Matt 6:9-10 .
[146]  If we would pray for the kingdom of the heavens, we must also seek the kingdom of the heavens in order to strengthen our prayer and so that we can cooperate with our prayer for the kingdom.
[147]  The Holy Spirit uses this to warn us to not be like them in lusting after evil things, worshipping idols, committing adultery, tempting the Lord, and murmuring, lest we fall along the way and are unable to obtain the kingdom reward, the crown in the kingdom, or to enter into the kingdom of the heavens to obtain the kingdom promised by God.
[148]  In the same way, if we receive only Christ s redemption and have Christ s life, we cannot enter the kingdom of the heavens; we must also obey God s word, rely on the power of Christ, and endeavor to pursue Him in order to enter into the kingdom of the heavens.
[149]  Through this type we can see that entering the kingdom of the heavens is not a guaranteed matter, even though we have been saved, have been redeemed by the blood, have the life of Christ, have been baptized in the Spirit, have left Satan s authority of darkness, have enjoyed Christ as life, have drunk of the Spirit, have served God in worship to Him, have the presence of God in Christ, and have the leading of the Spirit and the Word for the way ahead.
[150]  This type shows that if we want to enter into the kingdom of the heavens, we must receive Christ s redemption to deal with our sins and to escape God s wrath, be baptized to escape the world and the authority of Satan through our co-death with Christ, deal with the flesh so that all fleshly things may be terminated completely, put off the old man, which is the self through a deeper experience of the death of Christ, and engage in warfare to deal with Satan s authority in the air Eph 6:11-13 .
[151]  God gave us not only a complete type of entering the kingdom of the heavens in the Old Testament but also a good pattern in the New Testament.
[152]  He was assured that he would receive the crown of the kingdom of the heavens and that he would receive the Lord s reward of entering the kingdom of the heavens and inheriting the kingdom.
[153]  Since we published The Kingdom of the Heavens in 1936 and The Truth concerning the Kingdom of the Heavens in 1939 and 1940, the children of God in many places have received much help.
[154]  Because of this opposition, we must be willing to carefully examine the question of the kingdom of the heavens before God.
[155]  However, after passing through more than twenty years of opposition, during which time we have carefully studied and considered the Word, the light of this truth is even clearer to us, and we are even more convinced that our study accurately reflects God s Word.
[156]  CHAPTER FORTY-NINE SUFFERINGS OUTLINE The origin of sufferings: The fall of man.
[157]  Do not fear the things that you are about to suffer.
[158]  When we, as believers, live for God in this world and testify for Him, Satan uses all kinds of people, events, and things to cause us to suffer.
[159]  Since sufferings bring many benefits to believers, we should have a proper attitude toward sufferings.
[160]  The believers must consider sufferings as something appointed by God.
[161]  On the sixth day...Moses...said...Tomorrow is a Sabbath of complete rest, a holy Sabbath to Jehovah Exo 16:22-23, see also vv.
[162]  Six days you shall do your work, and on the seventh day you shall cease from work so that your ox and your donkey may have rest, and the son of your female servant and the sojourner may be refreshed Exo 23:12; see also Deut 5:14 .
[163]  God wanted the Israelites to keep the Sabbath so that they would have an actual day of rest once every seven days.
[164]  Now we must see how the apostles dealt with the Sabbath.
[165]  During the Time of the Great Tribulation concerning the Jews
[166]  Pray that your flight may not be...on a Sabbath, for at that time there will be great tribulation Matt 24:20-21 .
[167]  According to the context of these verses, this word was not spoken to the believers but to the Jews.
[168]  When the Lord spoke this word, He was speaking to the Jews who had a dual status: on the one hand, they were the Lord s disciples, and on the other hand, they were Jews.
[169]  The Lord s Day is a day that is especially related to New Testament believers.
[170]  Although the Bible does not speak of the Sabbath as having a special relationship to us, there are many portions that speak of our relationship to the Lord s Day.
[171]  We need to examine several aspects related to the Lord s Day.
[172]  On the day of the Lord s resurrection, the first day of the week, the disciples were gathered together in the evening, and the Lord came and appeared to them to breathe into them the Holy Spirit of life.
[173]  I was in spirit on the Lord s Day Rev 1:10 .
[174]  John spoke of the Lord s Day while he was on the island of Patmos.
