[1]  CONTENTS The Triune God, His Word, His Revelation, His Vision, and His Move The Sequence of the Arrangement of the Bible 1 The Sequence of the Arrangement of the Bible 2 The Way to Receive Revelation from the Holy Word and See Vision Through Revelation Illustrations of Receiving Revelation from the Holy Word and Seeing Vision Through Revelation 1 Illustrations of Receiving Revelation from the Holy Word and Seeing Vision Through Revelation 2 Illustrations of Receiving Revelation from the Holy Word and Seeing Vision Through Revelation 3 The Triune God's Revelation and His Move in the New Testament 1 The Triune God's Revelation and His Move in the New Testament 2 The Triune God's Revelation and His Move in the New Testament 3 The Triune God's Revelation and His Move in the New Testament 4 The Triune God's Revelation and His Move in the New Testament 5
[2]  Revealed as the Triune God in the divine revelation throughout the whole Scriptures Matt 28:19.
[3]  In this series of messages, we want to fellowship concerning the Triune God's revelation and His move.
[4]  THE TRIUNE GOD'S REVELATION A. The Triune God's Word Containing and Conveying His Divine Revelation
[5]  THE TRIUNE GOD'S REVELATION AND HIS MOVE MESSAGE TWO THE SEQUENCE OF THE ARRANGEMENT OF THE BIBLE 1 Scripture Reading: Gen 1:1; Mal 4:5-6; Matt 1:1; Rev 22:20-21 OUTLINE The Old Testament a figurative portrait of God's eternal economy: In types Genesis to Deuteronomy: Unveiling the Triune God embodied in Christ as the center and circumference of His eternal economy.
[6]  Unveiling this Christ as the blessing and everything to the Triune God's chosen people.
[7]  In history Joshua to Esther: Unveiling the Triune God's move in His chosen people to possess, inherit, and enjoy His promised all-inclusive Christ as the good land.
[8]  In poetry Job to Song of Songs: Unveiling that the Triune God should be man's pursuit as his perfection, and this God was incarnated to be a man in the flesh to be His Anointed, who is His delight and has been exalted by Him and who should be received, treasured, and exalted by His chosen people.
[9]  God is speaking, and His speaking is for His moving.
[10]  The previous message was concerning the Triune God, His word, His revelation, His vision, and His move.
[11]  This one sentence covers the central, intrinsic revelation of Job The Psalms unveil that this God was incarnated to be a man in the flesh to be His Anointed, who is His delight, who has been exalted by Him, and who should be received, treasured, and exalted by His chosen people.
[12]  THE TRIUNE GOD'S REVELATION AND HIS MOVE MESSAGE THREE THE SEQUENCE OF THE ARRANGEMENT OF THE BIBLE 2 OUTLINE The New Testament the practical fulfillment of God's eternal economy: Matthew to John unveil that the Triune God has been processed and consummated to be the all-inclusive life-giving Spirit: Through His incarnation to become the God-man.
[13]  Through His human living to live the God-man's life.
[14]  Through His all-inclusive death to redeem His lost creation and to release His divine life.
[15]  Acts unveils the all-inclusive life-giving Spirit spreading Himself as the reality of Christ, who is the embodiment of God, for the producing of the churches of God.
[16]  Romans to Revelation unveil the all-inclusive life-giving Spirit building up the churches into the organism of the consummated Triune God as the Body of Christ, by transforming them into the image of Christ as the firstborn Son of God, which will consummate in the New Jerusalem as the eternal enlargement and expression of the consummated Triune God.
[17]  Some Christians would say in general that the four Gospels tell us the detailed history of Christ, including His being born of a virgin, His death on the cross, and His resurrection.
[18]  Others may say that the Gospels reveal Christ in a fourfold way: in Matthew as a king, in Mark as a slave, in Luke as a man, and in John as God.
[19]  The Triune God has been processed through His incarnation to become the God-man, through His human living to live the God-man's life, through His all-inclusive death to redeem His lost creation and to release His divine life, and through His resurrection to dispense Himself into His redeemed chosen people as their life and everything.
[20]  In this message we want to see the way to receive revelation from the holy Word and see vision through revelation.
[21]  God restored and remade the universe by His Spirit, His word, and His light vv.
[22]  The animal life in the air typifies the riches of the life of Christ in Christ as the eagle for carrying God's redeemed to His destination Exo 19:4; Deut 32:11-12; Isa 40:31; Rev 12:14 and in Christ as the turtledoves or pigeons for offering to God for the sins of God's people Lev 1:14; 5:7 .
[23]  The beasts and the cattle on the land typify the riches of the life of Christ in Christ as the conquering lion Gen 49:8-9; Rev 5:5 to fight for God's economy and in Christ as the sheep and oxen for offering to God for the fulfillment of God's full redemption Lev 1:2-3, 10; 3:1, 6, 12; 4:3; 5:6; John 1:29; 1 Pet 1:19; Rev 5:6-8, 12-13; 12:11; 21:9, 23; 22:1, 3 .
[24]  My intention in these messages is not to teach us from Genesis 1 and 2.
[25]  The river that flowed out from the place where the tree of life was, signifies that the Spirit of God flows out of God as the river of the water of life with four heads to reach the four directions of the earth.
[26]  God caused man to sleep and took a rib out of him with which He built a wife for man, signifying that Christ died according to God's will and that from His side flowed His blood for redemption and His Spirit of life for life dispensing, through which His Body is built up and becomes one with Him in His life, nature, and expression, but not in His Godhead, as fully unveiled in the New Jerusalem.
[27]  It equals the entire revelation of the entire Bible, from God's creation Gen 1 , through His incarnation to present Himself as the tree of life to all the fallen people for the producing of the church, through His death, resurrection, and transforming work for the building up of His organic Body to match Him as His counterpart, unto the consummation in the New Jerusalem as a couple of the redeeming God and the redeemed people for God's enlarged expression for eternity with the divine glory manifested in humanity.
[28]  This indicates that God put Christ to death and from His pierced side flowed blood for redemption and water for dispensing of life to produce the church to match Christ as His counterpart John 19:34 .
[29]  Christ ascended to the heavens, was enthroned, and received the crown of glory Luke 24:51; Acts 1:9; 2:33; Heb 2:9 ; He has been made Lord, Christ Acts 2:36 , the Ruler of the kings of the earth Rev 1:5 , and the Savior Acts 5:31 , and also has been established by God to be the Minister of His new covenant Heb 8:2 , the High Priest 2:17; 4:14; 7:26; 8:1 , and the Mediator and guarantee of the new covenant 8:6; 9:15; 7:22 .
[30]  The coming back of Christ will end the church age and bring in His kingdom, the millennial kingdom Rev 11:15 , in which He and His overcoming saints will be priests of God to serve God and kings to rule over the nations 20:4, 6 .
[31]  In His coming back Christ will judge the saints and give His kingdom as a reward to the saints justified by Him 2 Cor 5:10 ; He will marry the justified, overcoming saints as His spouse, who will be led by Him as His overcoming army to defeat Antichrist, Antichrist's partner the false prophet and the nations who follow them in rebelling against God Rev 19:7-9, 11-16 ; He will cast Antichrist and the false prophet into the lake of fire vv.
[32]  In this message we want to begin to see the Triune God's revelation and His move in the New Testament.
[33]  The Bible is the Word of God that conveys to us God's revelation.
[34]  The gifted ones among the believers build up the Body of Christ through the transforming Spirit.
[35]  THE TRIUNE GOD'S REVELATION AND HIS MOVE MESSAGE NINE THE TRIUNE GOD'S REVELATION AND HIS MOVE IN THE NEW TESTAMENT 2 OUTLINE The revelations: The Triune God's incarnation is to bring God into man, mingling God with man and making God one with man both in the divine life and divine nature but not in the Godhead and in the human life and human nature John 1:14; 1 Tim 3:16.
[36]  The human living of the man Jesus on earth is to express God in man through His divine attributes expressed in the human virtues of Jesus.
[37]  This is the consummating step of Christ's ministry on the earth, that is, to have the consummated Triune God as the all-inclusive Spirit of life join together with the believers' spirit as one wonderful mingling spirit 1 Cor 6:17 ; the divine Spirit indwells the human spirit 2 Tim 4:22 and the two work together as one spirit Rom 8:16 : The New Testament as the biography of Christ unveils to us that Christ as the Christ of God, the Messiah of God John 1:41 , the anointed One of God Dan 9:26, lit.
[38]  The threefold ministry of Christ is in three stages: In the first stage it is His earthly ministry, which begins in His incarnation and ends in His breathing of Himself into His believers as the Spirit of life to bring His believers into an organic union with the processed and consummated Triune God Matt 28:19.
[39]  E. Christ Breathing Himself as the Pneumatic Christ into His Believers as the Gentle Breath
[40]  Christ, as the embodiment of the consummated Triune God, in the evening of His resurrection, breathed Himself as the pneumatic Christ into His believers as the gentle breath.
[41]  This indicates that the entire consummated Triune God as the consummated all-inclusive Spirit has been wrought into the believers of Christ as their life and everything.
[42]  THE TRIUNE GOD'S REVELATION AND HIS MOVE MESSAGE TEN THE TRIUNE GOD'S REVELATION AND HIS MOVE IN THE NEW TESTAMENT 3 OUTLINE The revelations: The ascension of the consummated Christ as the embodiment of the consummated Triune God brought Him from the earth into the heavenly sphere, where He was enthroned to be appointed as so many items of His status for His qualification to carry out, in His heavenly ministry, what He has consummated in His earthly ministry: As the God-appointed Redeemer to apply His redemption to the repentant sinners Rom 3:24; Eph 1:7.
[43]  As the God-ordained Ruler of the kings of the earth and the Savior to execute His full salvation in life to the believers for their regeneration Rev 1:5; Acts 5:31.
[44]  As the God-established Minister to minister all His unsearchable riches with heaven to His believers for their growth in life Heb 8:2.
[45]  In His heavenly ministry the ascended Christ as the Head of His Body builds up His Body by the transforming Spirit through the gifted ones among the believers: The consummation of the earthly ministry of Christ is to have the consummated Triune God wrought into the believers that they may become a people of God who have the organic union with the processed and consummated Triune God as the all-inclusive life-giving Spirit in their regenerated spirits.
[46]  This building up of the Body of Christ produces the overcomers whom Christ will marry, and they as the bride of Christ will become the army of Christ for Christ to carry out His upcoming kingdom ministry.
[47]  In this message we want to see the revelations concerning Christ's heavenly ministry.
[48]  The New Testament as a biography of Christ is composed of His three ministries: His ministry on the earth, His ministry in the heavens, and His ministry in the kingdom.
[49]  In His heavenly ministry the ascended Christ as the Head of His Body sent out the apostles and disciples to preach the gospel and establish the churches.
[50]  In His heavenly ministry the ascended Christ as the Head of His Body builds up His Body by the transforming Spirit through the gifted ones among the believers.
[51]  THE TRIUNE GOD'S REVELATION AND HIS MOVE MESSAGE ELEVEN THE TRIUNE GOD'S REVELATION AND HIS MOVE IN THE NEW TESTAMENT 4 OUTLINE The revelations: The last five items of facts, from I. J. to I. N., reveal to us Christ's kingdom ministry, beginning from the coming back of Christ to Christ's judgment at the great white throne over all the dead.
[52]  In the kingdom ministry of Christ, the first thing that Christ will do is to judge His believers at His judgment seat 2 Cor 5:10 : To reward His overcoming believers with His kingdom that they may enter into the millennial kingdom to partake of Him as the tree of life Rev 2:7 and to share His joy and His kingship Matt 25:21, 23; Rev 20:4, 6.
[53]  This ministry was concluded in John 20:22, when Christ in His resurrection came back to His disciples and breathed Himself as the life-giving Spirit into them.
[54]  Christ will discipline His defeated believers with the punishment in the millennial kingdom that they may be put away from His glory and enjoyable presence to a place of darkness for their discipline Matt 25:30 that they may mature in His life for them to participate in the New Jerusalem in the new heaven and new earth after the kingdom age.
[55]  A God-man's life is a life that is conformed to the death of Christ by the enjoyment of His power of resurrection Phil 3:10 , and a life that lives Christ and magnifies Christ by the bountiful supply of the Spirit of Jesus Christ 1:19-21a .
[56]  In His kingdom ministry Christ will defeat Antichrist with his partner, the false prophet, and the nations who follow them in rebelling against God in the war at Armageddon Rev 19:11-16 .
[57]  THE TRIUNE GOD'S REVELATION AND HIS MOVE MESSAGE TWELVE THE TRIUNE GOD'S REVELATION AND HIS MOVE IN THE NEW TESTAMENT 5 THE VISIONS AND GOD'S MOVE OUTLINE The visions and God's move: The revelations:
[58]  From the incarnation of Christ through His human living on the earth, His crucifixion, and His resurrection, the early disciples saw the historical facts of Christ's work.
[59]  After the forty days, before Christ went to the heavens, based upon what He had shown the disciples as revelations, an issue came out, that is, the vision.
[60]  At the end of His stay with the disciples, He charged them to be His witnesses in Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria and unto the uttermost part of the earth Acts 1:8 , and then before His ascension He charged the disciples to go and disciple the nations and teach them all that He had commanded them based upon the revelation that all authority had been given to Him in heaven and on earth Matt 28:18-20 .
[61]  e. Giving Paul a Further Vision of the Macedonian Call to Direct His Gospel Trip to Europe
