[1]  In the initial stage, the stage of regeneration, the believers have been called by God and separated unto Him; they have repented, believed, and been baptized; and they have been joined to the processed Triune God, redeemed, made a new creation, and saved.
[2]  Eventually, at the end of the progressing stage, the believers will be conformed to the image of Christ, the firstborn Son of God, and look to and wait for the Lord Jesus coming back to usher them into their future.
[3]  In the completing stage of God s full salvation, the stage of glorification, the believers will be glorified.
[4]  God has predestinated and justified us, and now He is conforming us to the image of His firstborn Son.
[5]  Glory in this verse is the glory in Greek and denotes Christ, who is God s expression, the effulgence of God s glory Heb 1:3 .
[6]  Our glorification is also our being called by the God of all grace into His eternal glory in Christ Jesus 1 Pet 5:10 .
[7]  God s calling us in Christ Jesus indicates that God has passed through the processes of incarnation, human living, crucifixion, resurrection, and ascension to accomplish a complete and full redemption so that He may bring His redeemed people into an organic union with Himself.
[8]  It is in this Christ, through His all-inclusive redemption and based on all His achievements, that the God of all grace can call us into the enjoyment of His eternal glory and perfect, establish, strengthen, root, and ground us in the Triune God, thus, enabling us to attain His glorious goal.
[9]  Moreover, 2 Thessalonians 2:14 says that God has called us through the gospel so that we may obtain the glory of the Lord Jesus Christ.
[10]  The glory of the Lord Jesus Christ is the glory given to the Son by the Father John 17:22 , which is the sonship with the Father s divine life and nature 5:26 to express the Father in His fullness 1:18; 14:9; Col 2:9; Heb 1:3 .
[11]  Then the sons of God will enjoy the glory of the children of God with its freedom, and the whole universe will behold the sons of God in glory and participate in the freedom of this glory.
[12]  This indicates that in God s full salvation Christ is righteousness for our past , by which we have been justified by God so that we may be reborn in our spirit to receive the divine life Rom 5:18 .
[13]  Christ s resurrected body, the body of Christ s glory, is saturated with God s glory Luke 24:26 and transcendent over corruption and death Rom 6:9 .
[14]  Hence, we are waiting for Christ to come back so that we may be brought into the ultimate consummation of God s salvation the transfiguration of our body.
[15]  THE STAGE OF GLORIFICATION 3 OUTLINE Being raptured: The dead overcomers through all the generations, as the man-child, being resurrected and caught up: To God and to His throne.
[16]  Among the believers living on earth at the time of the Lord s coming back, some will have ripened early, and, being the first to mature, they will become the firstfruits in God s field.
[17]  The rest of the overcoming believers, who will be living at the Lord s coming back, will be raptured to stand before the Son of Man in the heavens.
[18]  THE STAGE OF GLORIFICATION 4 OUTLINE The majority of the believers, who have died through all the generations, signified by the ten virgins, rising up from the dead: The prudent ones, who take oil in their vessels with their lamps and who are ready, being taken to the wedding feast of the Lamb.
[19]  Being raptured into the Lord s parousia: The dead believers rising up first: The resurrection of those who are Christ s. The resurrection of life.
[20]  Having oil in their lamps signifies that they have the Spirit of God dwelling in their spirit Rom 8:9, 16 , and taking oil in their vessels signifies that they have the infilling of the Spirit of God saturating their souls.
[21]  Those who are Christ s are the believers in Christ, the righteous ones, who will be resurrected unto life at the Lord s coming back before the millennium John 5:29; Luke 14:14; 1 Thes 4:16; 1 Cor 15:52; Rev 20:4-6 .
[22]  After the dead ones among the believers, signified by the ten virgins, have been resurrected, the living believers, signified by one of the two men and one of the two women in Matthew 24:40 and 41 and one of the two in Luke 17:34, who are left and who will still remain until the Lord s coming, will be caught up at the same time together with the resurrected ones.
[23]  THE STAGE OF GLORIFICATION 5 OUTLINE Being judged at the judgment seat of Christ the judgment seat of God: Five judgments revealed in the New Testament: The Lord Jesus being judged on the cross by God.
[24]  In this lesson we will see in detail how the believers, in the completing stage of God s full salvation, will be judged at the judgment seat of Christ, which is the judgment seat of God.
[25]  If our heart is right, good, pure, and for God, then at the judgment seat of Christ we will be rewarded with praise from God.
[26]  The believers who overcome by building the Body of Christ with gold, silver, and precious stones in their Christian life v. 12 , willingly serving the saints for the building 14:26 , preaching the gospel 9:16-17 , denying their self and taking up their cross to follow the Lord Matt 16:24-27 , pursuing toward the goal Phil 3:14 , not casting away their boldness Heb 10:35 , serving as the faithful and prudent slaves whom the master has set over his household to give them food at the proper time Matt 24:45-47 , and being faithful to use their gifts 25:14-30 will receive a reward at the judgment seat of Christ.
[27]  THE STAGE OF GLORIFICATION 6 OUTLINE Being called to the marriage dinner of the Lamb and being His bride: The marriage of the Lamb being the issue of the completion of God s economy.
[28]  In the completing stage of God s full salvation, the overcoming believers, those who are rewarded at the judgment seat of Christ, will be called to the marriage dinner of the Lamb.
[29]  In this lesson we will see that in the completing stage of God s full salvation the overcoming believers will be the heavenly armies following Christ, who is called Faithful and True, the Word of God, and King of kings and Lord of lords.
[30]  As the Word of God, Christ speaks for God not only by imparting life as grace into God s chosen people John 1:1, 4, 14 but also by executing God s judgment upon Antichrist and his followers.
[31]  May we be encouraged to become the called, chosen, and faithful ones who in that day will be approved by the Lord to participate in His glorious army, following Him to defeat God s enemies and bring in God s kingdom.
[32]  After His coming back, the Lord will drink the cup of the new covenant new with the overcoming believers in the heavenly part of the millennium.
[33]  This word indicates that from the time He established the table, the Lord would be away from the believers physically and would not drink of the fruit of the vine with them until He drinks it new with them in the Father s kingdom.
[34]  In order to inherit the coming kingdom as a reward, we need not only to believe in the Lord but also to love God for our overcoming, because the kingdom is God s promise to those who love Him.
[35]  However, not all the believers will have an inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God, because the kingdom of Christ and of God does not refer to the kingdom today in the church life but to the manifestation of the kingdom in the coming millennium.
[36]  When the overcoming believers participate in the coming kingdom, they will inherit eternal life and thereby have a fuller enjoyment of the divine life Matt 19:29 .
[37]  Strictly speaking, to eat of the tree of life in the Paradise of God refers to the particular enjoyment of Christ as our life supply in the New Jerusalem in the coming millennial kingdom, because this is a promise of reward made by the Lord to His overcomers.
[38]  The enjoyment of Christ as the tree of life in the New Jerusalem in the new heaven and new earth will be the common portion of all God s redeemed people, whereas the particular enjoyment of Christ as the tree of life in the New Jerusalem in the coming millennial kingdom will be a reward given only to the overcoming believers.
[39]  If we overcome all the distractions in the church s degradation to enjoy Christ as the tree of life in the church today, we will be rewarded with the eating of the tree of life in the Paradise of God in the coming age.
[40]  After being disciplined by the Lord and growing in life unto maturity during the millennial kingdom, they will share in the divine blessings in the stage of eternity, such as the eternal priesthood with God s eternal presence, the eternal kingship 22:3-5 , the New Jerusalem, the tree of life v. 14 , and the water of life v. 17 . Then their names should again be written in the book of life.
[41]  In their participation in the coming kingdom the overcoming believers will also gain the soul, save the soul, and enjoy the salvation of the soul.
[42]  If we, the believers, allow our soul to suffer the loss of its enjoyment in this age for the Lord s sake, not loving our soul, that is, our self, and if we live by the Lord and according to His standard, then when He comes back He will reward us with the kingdom, and we will have no problems, sorrows, or sufferings in our soul.
[43]  This promise is to the believers who overcome and keep the Lord s works until the end. Therefore, the Lord will give them authority over the nations, and they will shepherd the nations with an iron rod Rev 2:26-27 . In Psalm 2:9 God gave Christ authority to rule over the nations.
[44]  H. Ruling Over All the Possessions of the Lord
[45]  Finally, in the coming kingdom the overcoming believers will be appointed by the Lord to rule over all the possessions of the Lord Matt 24:47 .
[46]  This is the reward that the Lord gives to His faithful slaves in the manifestation of the kingdom of the heavens.
[47]  After Christ and His heavenly armies fight against Antichrist, the false prophet, and their armies, the kingdom will be brought in. Then the overcoming believers will participate in the coming kingdom, which will be the manifestation of the kingdom of the heavens during the millennium.
[48]  The Father delights to give the believers the kingdom, which is His promise to those who love Him and is the overcomers inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God.
[49]  The Lord s word concerning the crown of life, the tree of life, and the book of life indicates that in the manifestation of the kingdom the overcoming believers will enjoy eternal life in different aspects in a fuller way.
[50]  C. Only Those Who Are Written in the Lamb s
[51]  Revelation 21:27 says that only those who are written in the Lamb s book of life will enter into the New Jerusalem.
[52]  This assures us that all the believers in Christ will be there, for we are those who are written in the Lamb s book of life.
[53]  The river of water of life is a symbol of the processed Triune God in Christ as the life-giving Spirit John 7:38-39; 1 Cor 15:45 flowing out Himself into us, the redeemed people, to saturate us and make us the constituents of the New Jerusalem.
[54]  Through Christ s redemption, which has fulfilled all the requirements of God s glory, holiness, and righteousness, the way to the tree of life has been opened again to the believers Heb 10:19-20 .
[55]  The water of life signifies the Spirit, who is the ultimate consummation of the Triune God, and the tree of life signifies Christ as the embodiment of the Triune God.
[56]  The fact that the tree of life grows on the two sides of the river of the water of life indicates that the embodiment of the Triune God, who is Christ, is always with the all-inclusive Spirit, who is the consummation of the Triune God, to be our life supply dispensed into us.
[57]  After all God s redeemed saints have been raptured to the heavens, they will be the New Jerusalem, which will come down out of heaven from God.
[58]  Revelation 21:2 says, I saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God.
[59]  The fact that the New Jerusalem is the bride, the wife of the Lamb, Christ s eternal counterpart, indicates that the New Jerusalem is a corporate person, the aggregate of God s redeemed, regenerated, and transformed people.
[60]  In eternity the New Testament believers, together with the Old Testament saints, will be the tabernacle of God, God s eternal dwelling place among men.
[61]  Verse 3 says, I heard a loud voice out of the throne, saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and He will tabernacle with them, and they will be His peoples, and God Himself will be with them and be their God.
[62]  The type was first fulfilled in Christ as God s tabernacle among men John 1:14 and will eventually be fulfilled in the fullest way in the New Jerusalem, which will be the enlargement of Christ as God s dwelling place.
[63]  THE DIVINE TRINITY 2 OUTLINE Enjoying the Lamb-God, the redeeming God, in the dispensing of the Divine Trinity: The One on the throne being the center of the holy city.
[64]  In the ultimate consummation of the dispensing of the Divine Trinity, that is, in the New Jerusalem, the believers will enjoy the Lamb-God, the redeeming God, in His Triune dispensing.
[65]  This depicts how the Triune God God, the Lamb, and the Spirit symbolized by the water of life dispenses Himself into His redeemed people under His headship, implied in the authority of the throne, for eternity.
[66]  In eternity future the believers will enjoy the Lamb-God, the redeeming God, who is on the throne as the center of the holy city for the administration of the eternal kingdom of God vv.
[67]  Hence, the redeeming God is administrating within the New Jerusalem, and this administrating will be for the carrying out in full of God s dispensing and for His expression in His eternal manifestation.
[68]  C. Being the Light of Life in the Lamp
[69]  In eternity future the believers will enjoy God who is the light of life in the lamp shining through the holy city.
[70]  Revelation 21:23 says, The city has no need of the sun or of the moon that they should shine in it, for the glory of God illumined it, and its lamp is the Lamb.
[71]  But in the New Jerusalem, in the new heaven and the new earth, there will be no need of the light of a lamp and of the light of the sun, for the Lord God, the divine light, will shine much more brightly there Rev 22:5 .
[72]  The Lamb as the lamp will shine with God as the light to illumine the city with the glory of God, the expression of the divine light.
[73]  In eternity future in the New Jerusalem the believers will enjoy not only the spring of the water of life but also the river of water of life, a river bright as crystal, proceeding out of the throne of God and of the Lamb 22:1 .
[74]  For eternity in the New Jerusalem the believers will reign as kings over the nations, the people around the New Jerusalem, forever and ever v. 5 . In the consummation of the dispensing of the Divine Trinity, the believers will be members of God s royal family, reigning as kings over the nations.
[75]  The river of water of life that flows in the middle of the street of pure gold in the New Jerusalem signifies that the divine life flows in the divine nature as the unique way for the daily life of God s redeemed people, a way by which God s redeemed people walk.
