[1]  A GENUINE CHURCH Scripture Reading: 1 Cor 1:2-9 "The church of God" a church not only being possessed by God, but having God as its nature and essence, which are divine, general, universal, and eternal v. 2a.
[2]  "The church in Corinth" a church in a city, remaining in a definite locality and taking it as its standing, ground, and jurisdiction for its administration in business affairs, which is physical, particular, local and temporal in time v. 2b.
[3]  "The church sanctified in Christ" a church having been sanctified, made holy, in Christ, having Christ, who is the embodiment of the processed Triune God in His fullness, as its element and sphere v. 2c.
[4]  "Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ" this indicating that the church which is genuine, being under the dispensing of "grace" the embodiment of the processed Triune God for the enjoyment of His called ones and "peace" the processed Triune God as the issue of the enjoyment of Him as grace by His called ones , from God the Father as the source of the Divine Trinity, from the Lord Jesus Christ as the course of the flow of the Divine Trinity, and from the Holy Spirit as the reaching of the flow of the Divine Trinity not mentioned in word, but implied in denotation 2 Cor 13:14 v. 3.
[5]  In my early study concerning the church, 1 Corinthians 1:2-9 was very striking to me and stirred up the appreciation of the holy Word in my spirit.
[6]  Verse 4 says, "I give thanks to God always concerning you based upon the grace of God which was given to you in Christ Jesus."
[7]  CALLED INTO THE FELLOWSHIP OF THE SON THROUGH THE FAITHFUL GOD
[8]  This indicates that the church which is genuine has been called by God the Father who is faithful into the fellowship of, the participation in, His Son Jesus Christ, who is the consummated, all-inclusive, indwelling and life-giving and dispensing Spirit 1 Cor 15:45b; 2 Cor 3:17-18 , as its divine portion for its enjoyment of the consummated Triune God.
