[1]  CONTENT A Short Introduction in Memory of Brother Watchman Nee Preface THE CHRISTIAN LIFE AND WARFARE Preface Foreword The Distinction Between the Spirit, the Soul, and the Body Chapter One The Flesh Chapter Two The Soul-Life Chapter Three Fact, Faith, and Experience Chapter Four Living by Faith Selected Chapter Five How to Seek After God's Will Chapter Six The Freedom of the Cross Chapter Seven The Prayer that Opposes Satan Chapter Eight The Tempter and the Tempted Chapter Nine Back to the Cross!
[2]  Charles Usher Appendix One How to Walk by the Spirit Jessie Penn-Lewis Appendix Two Walking in the Will of God Jessie Penn-Lewis Appendix Three More Than Conquerors Jessie Penn-Lewis Appendix Four The Cross Destroying the Serpent Jessie Penn-Lewis Appendix Five Translated Out of the Power of Darkness Jessie Penn-Lewis Appendix Six Prayer a Divine Necessity Evan Roberts Appendix Seven The Chief Purpose of Prayer S.D. Gordon Appendix Eight How to Bind the Strong Man Jessie Penn-Lewis Appendix Nine Four Planes of the Spiritual Life Jessie Penn-Lewis Appendix Ten
[3]  According to the revelation of the Bible and the confirmation in history, in every age God has had His special work on earth among His created people, and for the accomplishment of this special work, He has raised up special men, chosen and perfected by Him to meet this special need.
[4]  During this century, as the gospel of God went to the East along with Western culture, hundreds and thousands of Western missionaries responded to God's commission and went to China, a land of ancient culture, and gave everything they had for the gospel of God.
[5]  God would enter into man's spirit as the Spirit and regenerate man, thus producing His many sons, who share His life and nature, and the many members of Christ the Son, who constitute His organic Body as His corporate expression, so that the Triune God through this expression would have an ultimate expression in fullness for eternity.
[6]  He pointed out that at the time of creation God did not put Himself into man to let man share His life and nature.
[7]  It was four thousand years later that He in God the Son, through the Spirit entering the flesh of a virgin, was conceived as a man with both the divine nature and the human nature a God-man who is the complete God as well as the perfect man.
[8]  Thus, He brought God into man, and within human flesh, He lived a human life on earth, expressing God by living out all of God's attributes through His human virtues.
[9]  He pointed out that the death of Christ was not a death of martyrdom, but a vicarious death on behalf of us, the sinners, which bears many significances: 1 to remove our sins, 2 to crucify the flesh for us, thus terminating the old man, 3 to destroy Satan who has the power of death, 4 to judge the world under Satan, 5 to annul the ordinances which separated us, 6 to satisfy all the requirements of righteousness, holiness, and glory which God had placed on us, the sinners, and 7 to release God's eternal life from within Himself for us.
[10]  His resurrection also transformed Him into a life-giving Spirit, the Holy Spirit, the reality of life, who enters into His believers to regenerate them, to bring their humanity into divinity, to make them God's many sons, His many brothers, and His members who constitute His mysterious Body as His organism for the expression of Christ, the embodiment of the Triune God.
[11]  He pointed out that the Spirit is the application of the Triune God.
[12]  He pointed out that the believers in Christ were created by the Triune God according to His image as tripartite men with a spirit, a soul, and a body to be God's vessel for containing Him, expressing Him, representing Him, and reigning for Him over all creation.
[13]  At the time of creation, God did not put His life and nature into man; He only created a spirit in man so that man could receive with his spirit the pneumatic God into him as life.
[14]  He pointed out that the church is constituted of all those who believe into Christ and who belong to Christ.
[15]  It is constituted of: 1 God the Father, the source of the Triune God, as its essence, like the transparent pure gold; 2 God the Son, the expression of the Triune God, as its entrance in His redeeming death and His life-dispensing resurrection, like the beautiful pearl; and 3 God the Spirit, the application of the Triune God, as her walls and foundations, through the Spirit's transformation in the believers, like the glorious precious stones.
[16]  The Collected Works of Watchman Nee is a collection of the messages, sermons, publications, manuscripts, and hymns of Brother Watchman Nee.
[17]  Throughout church history, there has never been a time when messages on the cross are as needed as today.
[18]  All the things that Christ has accomplished for us on the cross must be experienced by us one by one before we can mature in life and can become a vessel of God.
[19]  The spirit was once the highest part of man's whole being; both the soul and the body were under it.
[20]  Under normal circumstances, the spirit is like the matriarch, the soul is like the steward, and the body is like the servant.
[21]  The spirit has the God-consciousness: it knows God's voice, fellowships with God, and is endowed with an extremely keen sense toward God.
[22]  Since God is life, to be dead is to be separated from God.
[23]  The word flesh is used in many different ways in the Bible.
[24]  Those who are regenerated will not walk according to flesh but will walk according to the spirit v. 4 . Furthermore, those who "live according to the flesh..must die" v. 13 . They live according to flesh because they have not accepted the condemnation of sin in the flesh through the Son of God becoming the sin offering in the likeness of the flesh of sin v. 3 . This is why they are "debtors...to the flesh to live according to the flesh" v. 12 . "For when we were in the flesh, the passions for sins, which acted through the law, operated in our members to bear fruit to death" 7:5 . Hence, "those who are in the flesh cannot please God" 8:8 .
[25]  After a believer has believed, although he is spirit John 3:6 and also is in the spirit Rom 8:9 , he is not yet spiritual; he is still of the flesh.
[26]  Paul told the church in Corinth, "And I, brothers he addressed them by such a title because they had already believed in the Lord and were regenerated , was not able to speak to you as to spiritual men, but as to fleshy, as to infants in Christ" 1 Cor 3:1 .
[27]  "For when someone says, I am of Paul, and another, I of Apollos, are you not men of flesh?" v. 4 . "For you are still fleshly" v. 3 .
[28]  The unique way to be delivered from the flesh is the cross.
[29]  An unregenerated person is regenerated through believing in the substitutional death of the Lord Jesus on the cross; he need no longer be according to the flesh or mind the things of the flesh.
[30]  The Son of God has not only borne our sins on the tree and become our sin offering, but has also "condemned sin in the flesh" so that we who are joined to Him may no longer serve sin in the flesh.
[31]  Formerly, we were "dead in our offenses and in the uncircumcision of our flesh" v. 13a . God forgave us through the death of the Lord Jesus and made us alive together with Him v. 13b . Only the death of Christ can sever us from the lust of our flesh.
[32]  Actually, these ordinances merely give men "a reputation of wisdom which is hypocritical in self-imposed worship which is of man's regulation instead of God's way and lowliness a kind of false humility and severe treatment of the body treating the body harshly in clothing, food, and activity, thinking that in so doing, the lust of the flesh will be subdued , but are not of any value against the indulgence of the flesh" v. 23 . God's way, the effective way, is to die with Christ v. 20 . Man is flesh because he is born of flesh John 3:6 . Man inherited his flesh by being begotten.
[33]  Sin is the chief motivating power of the flesh, because sin is in the flesh Rom 7:17 .
[34]  Although all sins come from the flesh, and the soul is merely directed by it and acts as its puppet, the soul is inherited from Adam, and though not fully defiled, it is unavoidably affected by Adam's fall.
[35]  The Bible has many things to say about a soulish man.
[36]  First Corinthians 2:14 says, "But a soulish man does not receive the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness to him and he is not able to know them because they are discerned spiritually."
[37]  THE CHARACTERISTIC OF A BELIEVER HAVING HIS SPIRIT AND SOUL MIXED TOGETHER
[38]  Who are the believers who have their spirit and soul mixed together?
[39]  It is there that the Holy Spirit teaches us to experientially divide the soul from the spirit.
[40]  The dividing of the soul and the spirit is not merely a doctrine; it is an experience which all believers can and must have in their lives.
[41]  Verse 12 says, "For the word of God is living and operative and sharper than any two-edged sword, and piercing even to the dividing of soul and spirit and of joints and marrow, and able to discern the thoughts and intentions of the heart."
[42]  As the sacrifices of old were divided by the priests so that the joints and marrow were all laid bare and separated into two parts, in the same way the believers are now being divided in their soul and spirit through the word of God by their High Priest, the Lord Jesus.
[43]  In Matthew 10:38 through 39 the Lord Jesus says, "And he who does not take his cross and follow after Me is not worthy of Me. He who finds his soul-life shall lose it, and he who loses his soul-life for My sake shall find it." These verses call us to lose our soul-life for the Lord's sake.
[44]  The soul-life spoken of here is man's original life, that is, the organic life that makes us a living creature.
[45]  This life is the life commonly shared by all men created by God and is different from the spiritual life.
[46]  The spiritual life is the very life of God Himself; it is divine, supernatural, and is not possessed by man before his regeneration.
[47]  The Lord Jesus wants us to hate our soul-life.
[48]  We should hate our own life and should not allow it to have the opportunity to act freely with respect to human love.
[49]  "Then Jesus said to His disciples, If anyone wants to come after Me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow Me. For whoever wants to save his soul-life shall lose it; but whoever loses his soul-life for My sake shall find it." In these verses, our Lord is calling His saints to come once more beneath the cross and to commit their soul-life to it, so that they would lose their soul-life.
[50]  As I have not cared for Myself but have unconditionally kept God's will even to the place of the cross, in the same way you must not care for your own soul-life but must be willing to give it up and to do what God wants you to do."
[51]  Self-pity, self-love, the fear of suffering, and shrinking back from the cross are expressions of the soul-life.
[52]  The greatest goal of the soul-life is to preserve its own existence.
[53]  Every time a cross is put before us, it calls us to give up ourselves, to have no more love for ourselves, and to lay down our lives for others through the power of God.
[54]  Hebrews 10:34 speaks of a group of believers whose possessions had been plundered.
[55]  If we truly desire to have the soul separated from the spirit, we must allow God to work on us concerning these things.
[56]  If we truly pour out our soul-life unto death and commit our spirit to God, we will soon experience being resurrected by God and have the fullness of the spiritual life in the glory of resurrection.
[57]  What we must do is lie on the altar.
[58]  It is our High Priest's job to apply the sharp knife to us to divide our soul from our spirit.
[59]  If we have truly committed ourselves to the cross, our High Priest will surely fulfill His ministry and divide our soul from our spirit.
[60]  Now we have to consider the practical steps by which we, in coming to the cross, allow the Lord Jesus to divide our soul from our spirit through the word of God.
[61]  In the present age of grace, everything is "by grace" Eph 2:8 .
[62]  The Lord Jesus has died and has given to us all His righteousnesses, divine virtues, perfections, victories, beauties, and so forth.
[63]  Facts are God's promises, His redemption, His works, and His free gifts.
[64]  Faith denotes the way man believes in God, trusts in His work and redemption, and claims His promises.
[65]  Let us now explain the matter of fact, faith, and experience in relation to our dying with the Lord.
[66]  It is just as important for believers to know the matter of dying with the Lord as it is for sinners to know the matter of redemption.
[67]  Concerning victory over the world, the same thing applies.
[68]  They come from: 1 acknowledging our sanctification, victory, and death to the self in the Lord Jesus Christ, and 2 practicing it by believing that one is joined to the Lord Jesus in life and that one will be as sanctified, victorious, and dead to the self as the Lord Jesus is.
[69]  "But the righteous shall have life and live by faith" Rom 1:17 .
[70]  The one question that troubles Christians the most is how to seek after God's will.
[71]  We know that all works which are done apart from God are vanity and futile labor; they do not count before God.
[72]  Watchman Nee attributed this chapter to an article by Rev Gordon Watt.
[73]  Romans 8:37 says that we can "more than conquer."
[74]  CHAPTER EIGHT THE PRAYER THAT OPPOSES SATAN Scripture Reading: Luke 18:1-8 THE THREE ASPECTS OF PRAYER
[75]  There are three aspects to our prayer: 1 concerning ourselves, 2 concerning God to whom we pray, and 3 concerning our enemy Satan.
[76]  When we pray concerning ourselves, we are, of course, doing it for our own interest; we pray because we have needs, lacks, and expectations.
[77]  However, the fact in the spiritual realm is that not only do the praying ones receive the benefit, but God receives His glory, and His will is done.
[78]  In the parable in Luke 18, our Lord Jesus points out these three aspects of prayer and their relationship to prayer.
[79]  Hence, the most important thing to do now is to clearly identify our enemy.
[80]  We have to know definitely who our enemy is, who it is that causes us to suffer.
[81]  If there is no prayer from His children expressing their oneness with Him in His work, no matter what His will may be, He will not execute it independently.
[82]  CHAPTER NINE THE TEMPTER AND THE TEMPTED I. THE ORIGIN OF THE TEMPTER
[83]  1 Satan works within man's heart, yet man is not aware of it.
[84]  "Who delivered us out of the authority of darkness and transferred us into the kingdom of the Son of His love" Col 1:13 .
[85]  Satan is afraid that man will go to the cross to be crucified and then resurrected from the dead v. 21 . For this reason, he tries his best to prevent man from going to the cross, for apart from the cross, there is no other way ordained by the Lord 1 Thes 3:3 . Which way are you taking today? It is a pity that many Christians try to sidestep the cross whenever they see it and are unwilling to be crucified! Although they are spared from suffering, the ease and comfort which they gain cannot be compared with the will of God which they miss! If they actually die, they will actually resurrect, and Satan will have no ground to stand.
[86]  "The word of God abides in you and you have overcome the evil one" 1 John 2:14 .
[87]  "But whom you forgive anything, I also forgive;...that we may not be taken advantage of by Satan" 2 Cor 2:10-11 .
[88]  V. THE LIMITATIONS OF THE TEMPTER A. If a Temptation Falls outside of God's Promise,
[89]  "Everyone who is begotten of God does not sin, but he who has been begotten of God keeps himself, and the evil one does not touch him" 1 John 5:18 .
[90]  "But the Lord is faithful, who will establish you and guard you from the evil one" 2 Thes 3:3 .
[91]  We should commit our whole spirit, our whole soul, and our whole body to the Lord and should trust in the Lord.
[92]  The following is an excerpt from Spiritual Equipment for the Last Days, a book by Charles Usher.
[93]  "Do we leave the Cross to go on to union with the risen Christ?" is the question that many of God's people are asking; and when one tells them of the need of a continual application of the death of Christ to the life, they say, "But I am in the risen Christ, and it is a living Christ we need, not a dead Christ."
[94]  Christ's death on the Cross was the highest expression of the life of Christ, and as you partake of His life, the spirit of Christ's crucifixion becomes the principle of your life.
[95]  There is a great danger of the soul who knows death union with Christ failing to see the value of cleansing.
[96]  Cleansing has to do with our walk with God.
[97]  "WHO HATH NOT LIFTED UP HIS SOUL TO VANITY."
[98]  The soul is the seat of self-love pride the "I" in us that wants to be seen and known and heard; also, the religious pride that says in effect "I thank God that I am not as other men are."
[99]  But if these souls learn to walk in the light, as He is in the light, they will have fellowship one with another, that is, with all the saints, and the blood of Jesus Christ will cleanse them from all sin.
[100]  We have put a capital S on the word spirit in the New Testament, where often it reads with a small s, or we have done that in the mind, by reading in the large S referring to the Holy Spirit in places where there should be a small s. The large S so read in by the majority of us, has hidden the fact that we have a human spirit, which is the organ for the Holy Spirit, and the place where the Holy Spirit dwells.
[101]  Not having understood clearly about the human spirit, we have not known how to co-operate with the Holy Spirit, and when He has come into our spirits, we have thought everything He had to say to us, must be given to the mind, with the result that we have mainly walked "after the soul," and not "after the spirit."
[102]  They ticket the world as "things," but there is a "spirit" of the world, and some "spirit" must work in us either the Spirit which is of God, or "spirits" instigated by Satan, i.e., the "spirit of the world," the "spirit of error," etc. How can you know the way to shut your spirit against all these spirits outside in the world, unless you understand how to co-operate WITH THE SPIRIT OF GOD in the things of God?
[103]  Now you see the place of the spirit in man, in regard to the things of God, and the necessity of our becoming spiritual men men of spirit not men of "soul," i.e., "the natural man," the man who seeks to apprehend spiritual things with his natural mind, which the Apostle emphatically declares he cannot do.
[104]  We also read of a "cool spirit" in Proverbs, the "heat of spirit" in Ezekiel, while it is said of John the Baptist that as a result of his wilderness time of fellowship with God, he got a "strong spirit," strong enough to go and face Herod, and to proclaim a message which was objectional to Jew and Gentile.
[105]  We are needing for this spiritual warfare with principalities and powers, just such a strong spirit; a cool spirit, a fervent spirit, a spirit ruled, for "he that ruleth his spirit is greater than he that taketh a city" in co-action with the Spirit of God.
[106]  Or, on the other hand, "spiritual" men do not understand how to "rule the spirit"; how to keep it "cool," as well as "fervent"; nor do they realize the danger of the power of darkness interfering with their spirits; nor the temptations of the spiritual sphere from forces of evil working upon, or driving their spirit out of steady co-operation with the Holy Spirit.
[107]  In the life of the spiritual man, the first thing is the new birth: "That which is born of the Spirit is spirit."
[108]  "a new heart will I give you, and a new spirit will I put within you."
[109]  Fausset a Commentator of authority says, that "In the three fold division of man's being, body, soul and spirit, the due state in God's design is, that the spirit which is the recipient of the Holy Spirit, uniting man to God, should be first and rule the soul, which stands intermediate between body and spirit.
[110]  With this knowledge, he comes a long to the children of God who have the Holy Spirit dwelling in them, and he brings all the weights he can bring, stirs up all the troubles he can, and puts them on the spirit, and as these heavy weights press upon the spirit and presses it down into the soul, you lose your testimony, and the ringing song of victory; all because you do not understand what he is doing.
[111]  It is in your spirit that you learn to know God for the spirit is the sanctuary, the shrine, the organ of the Holy Spirit, and it is there that He bears His witness "The Spirit beareth witness with our spirit that we are the children of God."
[112]  Then you next receive the Holy Spirit as a Person, as the Sanctifier, and He fills your spirit and makes it the shrine where He dwells, and the centre from which He works, and in that shrine He brings you into union with Christ when you become "joined to the Lord, one spirit."
[113]  In the light of these facts about the spirit of man, and the Indwelling of the Holy Spirit, the eighth of Romans is simply wonderful: "If we walk in the spirit," "if ye live in the spirit," "the mind of the spirit is life," "ye are not in the flesh but in the spirit."
[114]  The ACTIVE EXERCISE OF THE WILL, moment by moment, determining his obedience to the mind of God through the Spirit, or his walk "after the flesh."
[115]  When the spirit gets to its right place of predominance, united to Christ, and filled with the Spirit of God, and joined to the Lord, one spirit, "the Spirit of Him that raised up Jesus from the dead, will quicken your mortal body by His Spirit that dwelleth in you."
[116]  He did not say "I have prayed that you should not go into it;" but "I have let you go into it; you are so self-confident, Peter; you boasted that if all would forsake Me you would not, and I had to let Satan have you to sift you, and to break that self-confidence from you."
[117]  But you say, "They won't let me pray in the prayer meeting; how can I always go out against him?"
[118]  But you have a world-wide sphere in the prayer life, your spirit can go out in victorious prayer against all the powers of darkness, persistently, steadily for the whole church of Christ.
[119]  How easy it was then to speak; but, alas! the attacks, the conflict, the opposition, and the difficulties, have come like a great thick wall of clay, and the poor spirit has gone back into prison to be locked up and bound and compressed, so that it cannot move; and you have lost the power to perceive the will of God, and you don't know what to do.
[120]  God must work out His own plans in His own way; and your one thing is to know Him, to live and walk in the spirit with Him, to obey His word, to refuse to have clouds that will shadow your spirit-fellowship with God, who is Spirit.
[121]  The following is an article by Jessie Penn-Lewis, "Walking in the Will of God."
[122]  In John v. 30, the Lord Jesus said "I can of Mine own self do nothing" this means that He never acted apart from His Father "As I hear I judge: and My judgment is just, because I seek not Mine own will but the will of the Father which hath sent Me." Although He had a separate will, the principle of His life was not independent action, but a co-action in harmony with the will of God.
[123]  If you too will make this the central principle of the spiritual life, and set the helm of your will unvaryingly to choose God's will because it is God's will, then He will apply to your life Christ's victory on Calvary in such a way, as to endue you with power, for the deliverance of others from the power of evil spirits.
[124]  You need a spirit so flexible that it can move whichever way God wants, and I do not see how we are going to know and walk in the will of God, in harmony with God's Word, unless we consent to this walk in the spirit.
[125]  When you find yourself defeated, you may ask what is the meaning of the interference of the enemy?
[126]  Why cannot the stream of the power of God go on?
[127]  Then, after asking God for light, you discover that you were shrinking from what you know you ought to do.
[128]  The following is a booklet by Jessie Penn-Lewis, More Than Conquerors.
[129]  When you come to the point of recognising that God does not patch up the old life, but calls upon you to reckon it crucified, and to take from Him a new one, you will find that the new life has in it all the characteristics which belong to it.
[130]  One of the devices of the devil is to get the children of God to accept weakness, because of the "weakness of the Cross" 2 Corinthians 13.
[131]  3, 4 , but that is the human side towards men.
[132]  So whenever God says to you "BE so-and-so," say "Amen, I AM so-and-so " i.e. IT IS SO! God speaks the word, you appropriate it, and it becomes fact as you act it.
[133]  by His strength," then strength comes in. The devil knows the laws of the spiritual sphere, and he whispers, "Oh, you do feel bad today!" and you say, "I am bad!" But God says, "Be strong," then you say, "By faith in God I am strong!" Satan whispers, "You are going to break down," and you say, "I believe I shall break down!" and you find yourself really going "down." This is the law in the spiritual sphere, yet few of us understand the power of words in that sphere.
[134]  8 , yet without SIN and partaking of flesh and blood, formed a bond of union with the fallen race, that He in His divine personality should carry that fallen Adam-life to the Cross, and there suffer the penalty of death, which was its inevitable due and end; so that for the fallen creature He might break a way back to God, and become the Head of a new race, built up and formed out of His very nature and substance.
[135]  But before this becomes actual experience you need first to apprehend God's full ideal for you, and that He has translated you out of the power of darkness, so that the prince of darkness HAS NO FURTHER CLAIM ON YOU, NO RIGHT to you; for God "hath raised us up together with Christ and made us to sit with Him" in His reigning life.
[136]  Peter writes, "Be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary the devil, as A ROARING LION, walketh about, seeking whom he may devour; whom resist, stedfast in the faith" 1 Peter, v. 8, 9 . Are you quite sure you must be a special exception, and that he will not "devour you, nor touch you? If not, then "be sober," never be off guard one minute.
[137]  This is the reason why believers need light on the devices of the enemy.
[138]  If the Lord Jesus is a reality to you, surely you can bear some light on the foe who is always seeking to trap your feet.
[139]  If you do not know that he can take hold of your imagination, and torture you with his pictures, or your mind, and fill it with all kinds of thoughts, how are you going to resist him at these points.
[140]  You must watch, and ask Him for vision and power and knowledge to recognise the attacks of the enemy on you, so that you may work with God in the keeping, i.e. "He that is begotten of God keepeth himself, that the wicked one toucheth him not" I John v. . He "keeps himself" by watching, by resisting the adversary, by giving him no "advantage" by admitting an unforgiving spirit; by knowing his devices, so as not to yield to them unawares.
[141]  The following is an excerpt from an article by Evan Roberts.
[142]  If God can do things without prayer in the church, why does He not carry them out in His own time instead of delays and hindrances?...And why does God lay a complaint against the church that she does not pray?...Why did Christ say, "Pray ye the Lord of the Harvest to send forth labourers?"
[143]  The cycle of prayer moves in this wise: 1 God wants a thing done; 2 He moves the believer to pray that that thing might be done; 3 God does it in answer to that prayer....There is a thought abroad in the church: "Oh!
[144]  The Lord Jesus Christ dwells in those He redeems by His Spirit, Who imparts to them the very life of the Son of God, thus making them children of God.
[145]  The "Stronger than he" the Lord Christ is then, by His Spirit, the Overcomer Who is greater in us than he that is in the world 1 John iv.
[146]  It is necessary to emphasize here that the Stronger than the strong man can only manifest His power through us, as by definite faith we MAINTAIN OUR POSITION as crucified with Christ, and thus dead indeed unto sin in Him.
[147]  Consequently, we must always be open to all truth about God, ourselves, and the powers of darkness, and then honestly face the truth made known by the Spirit of God.
[148]  In order to do this we should deal with God concerning our own spirit, so that we may 1 know our spirit; 2 understand the laws of the spirit its characteristics and activities; 3 discern its delicate senses; and 4 know how to control and use it in co-working with the Holy Spirit of God.
[149]  We must be willing to pay the price of victory in the deliverance of others; have no preconceptions as to how God will work; watch every opportunity to co-operate with God as a means of answering our prayers; and walk softly, for great victory is a time of great danger, as the devil is then scheming to rob you of your victory.
[150]  The following is an excerpt from Life Out of Death, a book by Jessie Penn-Lewis.
[151]  There are four planes broadly speaking in the spiritual life of the believer, and of the Christian worker: The first plane we may call the "evangelistic" plane; that is, the plane where the soul knows the new birth; knows that he has eternal life in Christ; where he becomes a soul winner, preaches salvation from the penalty of sin, and is used to lead others to Christ; where the entire objective is winning souls for Christ; where he is faithful in proclaiming the gospel of salvation in Christ.
[152]  Then there is the second plane, which may be called the "revival" plane; or the stage in personal experience where the believer receives the fulness of the Holy Spirit, learns to know Him and to obey Him; to rely upon Him and to look to Him to work as he co-operates with Him, and is used to lead others into the experience of the fulness of the Spirit.
[153]  Then there is the third plane, which we may call the plane of the "path of the cross", where the believer experimentally apprehends his position in Romans 6 in fellowship with Christ's death; is brought into "conformity" to His death Philippians 3:10 ; he learns the fellowship of His sufferings, and is led to walk in the path of the Cross in every detail of practical life.
[154]  It is really the "ascension" plane, where the believer knows his union with Christ, seated with Him "far above all principality and power"; and where, in service, he is in aggressive warfare against the powers of darkness; learns to have spiritual discernment to detect the working of the devil; and learns the authority of Christ over all the power of the enemy.
[155]  For instance, you get a revelation of the ascension life, seated with Christ in the heavenly places, and the joy and light of it is so real, that you think you will never come down again to the lower planes you now leave behind you, but in a brief while of weeks, or months, the "conscious" blessing lasting according to the extent of the revelation and its power apparently disappears, and you perhaps struggle to regain what you think you have lost.
[156]  Then follows what may be called a "tunnel" experience, when you go through test upon test; in which, perhaps, you may think you fail, but through all you find there is advancement, and final emergence into the full consummation of that specific plane of the spiritual life, where you understand the way of abiding; for in the working into you of that life by the "tunnel" experience, God has removed what stands in the way of the permanent abiding in that stage of the knowledge of Him.
[157]  But let us remember, if God gives you a message which He means you to take hold of, He holds you, even when you appear to lose it.
[158]  His Word given to you lays hold of you.
[159]  That word has divine life and energy in it, and it can grip you, and hold you to it.
[160]  God requires your co-operation, of course, and you must actively take the word by faith; but the power is in the Word itself when God has spoken it to you.
[161]  If the Lord has given you the word "power over the power of the enemy", you have to co-operate by saying in response, "I choose and accept it, Lord, but I have no power to hold it; the Word must hold me."
[162]  And in truth you often apparently lose it, so that it goes right away from you, but if you go on steadily in bare faith, you come at last through the tunnel working of God, to the consummation point, and then what looked like a literal impossibility to you when God gave you the light, you find has been wrought into you as part of your very life; assimilated and incorporated into your spiritual being.
[163]  When a believer has pressed on with God faithfully from plane to plane, and has reached the sphere of warfare and victory over the powers of the air, then he should be able to lead others into any of the degrees of blessing they need; but, usually, when the soul is in a certain stage, and not arrived at its full consummation, he can only help others in the same stage, speaking out of his present light and experience.
[164]  When you become matured and ripened, then you do not speak from what you yourself are at the moment experiencing, but you are able to use the Scripture of truth as an armoury, and be "furnished completely" for every good work, able to wield, or apply the Word of God to each soul.
[165]  For these who already know the Baptism of the Spirit, and the path of the Cross, the pressing need is light on the warfare with Satan; but another need on a wider scale is the experimental knowledge of the Baptism of the Holy Ghost, for a vast number of believers do not know this, and the two-fold aspect of the Cross: therefore they cannot understand what we mean by "warfare" and the need of the discerning of spirits.
[166]  It is not enough to proclaim victory over the powers of darkness, you must lead the children of God to know the Cross in its relation to believers.
[167]  The warfare of Ephesians 6 is a spiritual warfare, and only through the death of the Cross is the believer brought into the spiritual realm, and the conflict there.
[168]  Many Christians are perplexed over receiving the Holy Spirit because they think they only have the proof of having done so, if they have manifestations of His presence: so on this subject many questions arise.
[169]  The Scriptures make it clear that you receive Him by faith Galatians 3:2, 3 , but there is a succeeding work to be done in real surrender to obey Him, and the putting of all obstacles out of the way of His fullest working; the hindrances must be removed to His working through the believer, and the wrong things in the life put away, as revealed progressively by Him.
