[1]  According to the entire revelation of the sixty-six books of the Bible, the Divine Trinity the Father, the Son, and the Spirit is for God's dispensing, that is, for the distribution of God into His chosen people.
[2]  We must be clear that the Father, the Son, and the Spirit coexist simultaneously from eternity to eternity.
[3]  Undoubtedly, the Father is God 1 Pet 1:2; Eph 1:17 , the Son is God Heb 1:8; John 1:1; Rom 9:5 , and the Spirit is God Acts 5:3-4 .
[4]  Essentially, God is one, but economically He is three the Father, the Son, and the Spirit Matt 28:19; 2 Cor 13:14 .
[5]  John 14:7-11 says, "If you had known Me, you would have known My Father also; and henceforth you know Him and have seen Him.
[6]  Philip said to Him, Lord, show us the Father and it is sufficient for us.
[7]  Modalism stresses the side of God being one to a heretical extreme by denying the coexistence and coinherence of the three of the Godhead.
[8]  Tritheism, on the other hand, stresses the side of God being three to a heretical extreme by teaching that the Father, the Son, and the Spirit are three Gods.
[9]  In addition to this, the Spirit of God was considered, by those who translated the New Testament into English, to be the power of God, an instrument for God's work, not a person who is ranked with the other two persons of the Divine Trinity.
[10]  In that verse the Lord said, "Go therefore and disciple all the nations, baptizing them into the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit."
[11]  In the Reformation that took place in the sixteenth century, through Martin Luther's teaching, many gave up the Catholic Church under the pope, but they did not receive the proper revelation and the enlightening help to recover the genuine practice of the church according to the New Testament revelation and pattern.
[12]  They were sidetracked first to form the state churches, such as the state church of Germany and the Church of England, and then to invent the private churches, the private denominations, such as the Baptist church and the Presbyterian church.
[13]  In this fresh action the Lord has recovered among us in the last seven decades the proper understanding and definition of the eternal life, the genuine understanding of the church of God, the boundary of the local church, the genuine ground of the church, Christ as the overcoming life, Christ as the all-inclusive One who has the preeminence in all things both in God's old creation and in His new creation and who is the centrality and universality of God's eternal economy, the church as the Body of Christ, the all-inclusive, compounded, and life-giving Spirit, God's eternal economy concerning Christ and the church, the Triune God's dispensing Himself into the tripartite man, the ultimate issue of God's chosen people as the New Jerusalem, the full view and the full definition of the New Jerusalem as God's ultimate manifestation and expression in His mingling with all His redeemed, regenerated, transformed, and glorified elect for eternity, etc. In such a recovery we practice the genuine church, caring for the all-inclusive Christ, the consummated Spirit, the eternal life, and all the divine truths of reality, not of vain letters, and endeavoring to escape from organization, dogmatic regulations, rituals, the clerical system, and traditions, that we may practice the universal priesthood, the universal function of all the members of Christ in the church life for the building up of the Body of Christ in God's eternal economy.
