[1]  The Intrinsic Problem in the Lord s Recovery Today and Its Scriptural Remedy CONTENTS
[2]  CHAPTER ONE THE GENUINE ONENESS OF THE BODY Scripture Reading: John 17:2, 6, 11, 14-21, 22-24; Eph 4:1-6, 11-16
[3]  Prayer: Thank You, Father, that we have Your name.
[4]  In the last chapter of that book, there is a promise from God to the local churches, that is, that God will crush Satan under the feet of the local churches v. 20 . We need to stand on this promise and believe that our God, the God of peace, will surely crush Satan under our feet.
[5]  One of the most positive items in the New Testament revelation is the genuine oneness of the Body.
[6]  This genuine oneness is just the processed Triune God, who mingles Himself with us, the redeemed and transformed Christians.
[7]  The oneness of all the believers in Christ is in the Triune God through sanctification by the reality of the word John 17:14-21 .
[8]  The first kind of oneness revealed in the New Testament is the oneness of the Lord s aspiration and prayer.
[9]  The model for the genuine oneness was there at the time of the Lord s prayer, but the actual oneness had not yet come.
[10]  The one Body, one Spirit, one Lord, one God, one faith, one baptism, and one hope make the Body one in every aspect as its attributes.
[11]  The four factors of which the Body is composed, the two means by which the Body is separated from Adam and joined to Christ, and the one hope that is the glorious goal of the Body are the Body s attributes, which make the Body one in every aspect.
[12]  This oneness is possessed by all the believers in Christ, who have received the Spirit as the seal of God s possession, which is the church, and the pledge of our inheritance, which is the Triune God Eph 1:13-14 .
[13]  in Christ Need to Go On and at Which
[14]  The believers in Christ need to go on until they all arrive at the oneness of the faith and of the full knowledge of the Son of God Eph 4:13a .
[15]  When we say that Christ is all-inclusive, we mean that He is not only the Triune God the Father, the Son, and the Spirit but also the Man; that within Him is His marvelous death and His powerful resurrection; and that He is all that we need salvation, peace, hope, our spiritual food, our spiritual drink, and our spiritual home.
[16]  Because I teach that Christ is our food John 6:57 , our drink John 7:37-39 , our clothing Gal 3:27 , and our dwelling place John 15:4a , some have misunderstood my teaching concerning the all-inclusiveness of Christ and have even accused me of teaching pantheism.
[17]  IN THE CHURCH Scripture Reading: Eph 4:4-6; Matt 18:19; Acts 1:14; Phil 1:27; 1 Cor 1:10; Rev 1:4a, 11-12, 20; 2:1, 8, 12, 18; 3:1, 7, 14; 2:7, 11, 17, 29; 3:6, 13, 22; 1 Cor 4:17; 7:17; Col 4:16; 1 Cor 11:16; 14:33-34; Acts 15:1-31; 1 Thes 2:14; 1 Cor 1:11-13; Phil 1:15, 17 THE ONE ACCORD
[18]  When we practice the proper one accord, we must realize the attributes of the church as the unique Body of Christ.
[19]  This is because the factors of the church are one, the elements of the church are one, the means of the church are one, and the goal of the church is one.
[20]  The Identity of the Churches The Seven Golden Lampstands, Symbols
[21]  These positive things include: in Ephesus, labor, endurance, and the hating of the works of the Nicolaitans Rev 2:2-3, 6 ; in Smyrna, the suffering of tribulation, poverty, and trial, and being faithful 2:9-10 ; in Pergamos, holding fast the Lord s name and not denying the faith of the Lord 2:13 ; in Thyatira, love, faith, service, and endurance 2:19 ; in Sardis, not defiling their garments 3:4 ; and in Philadelphia, keeping the word of the Lord and not denying His name 3:8, 10 .
[22]  These negative things include: in Ephesus, some calling themselves apostles and not being such, and the church leaving its first love Rev 2: 1a, 2, 4 ; in Pergamos, the church settling in the world, some holding the teaching of Balaam, and some holding the teaching of the Nicolaitans 2:12a, 13-15 ; in Thyatira, the church tolerating the woman Jezebel to teach and lead the Lord s slaves to commit fornication and to eat idol sacrifices 2:18a, 20 ; in Sardis, the church having a name that it was living but it was dead, and its works not being found by Christ completed before God 3:1-2 ; and in Laodicea, the church being neither cold nor hot, but boasting, I am rich and have become rich and have need of nothing 3:14-15, 17 .
[23]  as One Book to the Seven Churches Each of the Seven Epistles
[24]  All the churches should be one also in their practice.
[25]  In 1 Corinthians 14:33-34, concerning women being silent in relation to teaching with authority, Paul said, As in all the churches of the saints, indicating that all the churches should be the same in not permitting the sisters to teach with authority.
[26]  All the above eight points are a strong encouragement to the practice of the proper one accord in the church for the keeping of the genuine oneness of the Body by all the saints and all the churches universally.
[27]  We must consider that all these points came sovereignly into existence that we may be one in all things related to God, Christ, and the church, that we may spontaneously be exercised to practice the one accord according to all the attributes of oneness in the divine and spiritual interests.
[28]  Any teaching contrary to the above eight points, such as the teaching of the absolute autonomy of the local churches, is a discouragement to the one accord in the church and encourages and promotes division among the saints and among the churches.
[29]  Using teachings such as the teaching concerning the headship of Christ, the teaching concerning all the churches being responsible directly to Christ alone, and the teaching concerning not exalting man, all of which seem very scriptural, as reasons for separation from the saints or for division among the churches also is condemned.
[30]  CHAPTER THREE THE TESTS OF THE ONENESS OF THE BODY
[31]  In this message we will consider all the tests in the New Testament of the genuine oneness of the Body and of the proper one accord in the church.
[32]  If we are going to take care of such a case, we must not be shaken by anyone s turning away from the Lord s ministry, but must be strong in the power of the Lord s grace for God s economy.
[33]  The Apostle Paul had the assurance that the firm foundation of God stands, having this seal, The Lord knows those who are His, and Let everyone who names the name of the Lord depart from unrighteousness v. 19 . In spite of the heresy being spread like gangrene, God has a standing, namely, that His faithful ones who call on the name of the Lord would depart from unrighteousness.
[34]  He believed that the Lord would deliver him from every evil work and would save him unto his heavenly kingdom v. 18 . He also had the assurance that the Lord will award to him the crown of righteousness at the Lord s appearing for his participation in the Lord s kingdom vv.
[35]  Jude exhorted the believers also to build up themselves in their most holy faith, pray in the Holy Spirit, and keep themselves in the love of God, awaiting the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ unto eternal life v. 20 . This shows that in such a situation of apostasy, the best way for us is to exhort the believers in the positive way that Jude did.
[36]  To handle such a great case of the apostasy of the degraded church, we need to be equipped with the knowledge of the history of the church s degradation and with the knowledge of the divine revelation concerning the church in God s New Testament economy.
[37]  Among the fifty-one cases listed above, thirty-five, the majority, are of different kinds and were all except case IV taken care of positively by various adequate ways, such as the proper arrangement of the service in case I, testifying according to the truth in case II, and recovering in a spirit of meekness a brother overtaken in an offence in case XVIII, leaving only sixteen, the minority, to be taken care of in the way of quarantine.
[38]  This indicates that, according to His loving concern over His dear redeemed saints, the Lord s intention concerning all the believers who are involved in the tests of the oneness of His Body and of the one accord of His church, is to adjust, correct, rescue, recover, and perfect them so that He can carry out the building up of His organic Body.
[39]  In case XXXVIII, the Apostle John sharply and emphatically charged us not to receive into our house a heretic who does not confess Christ s coming in the flesh but goes beyond the teaching of Christ, and even not to greet him, that we may not share in his evil works 2 John 7, 9-11 .
[40]  Concerning case VIII, a case of gross sin, the Apostle Paul took care of it first by judging the sinning one in the name of the Lord and delivering him to Satan for destruction of the flesh 1 Cor 5:3-5 , and then by solemnly charging the saints to exercise to quarantine the sinning one by not eating with him and removing him from the fellowship in the church 1 Cor 5:11, 13 .
[41]  Among all the tests of the oneness of the Body and of the one accord of the church listed above, only three divisions, heresies, and fornication are intolerable and need a quarantine by the churches and the saints according to the apostles teaching.
[42]  If these three things are taking place in the church, the Body of Christ would be annulled, the very Christ would be altogether damaged, and the humanity used as the constituents of the Body of Christ would be fully corrupted.
[43]  Concerning the three problems of division, heresy, and gross sin, we need to be very careful in dealing with those involved, in order that the building up of the Body of Christ may proceed in a proper way, not allowing the Body of Christ to be damaged by divisions, Christ to be damaged by heresies, and the humanity that is for the Lord s Body to be damaged by gross sins.
[44]  IN THE LORD S RECOVERY Scripture Reading: 1 Tim 3:15; 2 John 1-2; 3 John 3-4; Rom 16:17; Titus 3:10; 2 John 7-11; 1 Cor 5:2, 11-13; 11:19; 4:1-5; 2 Cor 5:10
[45]  Hence, I have the burden to present to the saints in the Lord s recovery some truths that will blow away the cloud that has dimmed the clear vision of the Lord s recovery among us, and will bring back to us a clear sky with a clear view in the recovery.
[46]  The basic problem in the matter that John covers in this accusation concerns the understanding of the relationship between the ministry and the churches.
[47]  Concerning the relationship between the ministry or the work and the churches, it has been our practice, from Brother Nee s time up to the present time, that whatever the ministry or the work does is absolutely for the churches.
[48]  We have received our ministry from the Lord with a definite commission, that is, to build up the churches as the organic Body of Christ.
[49]  Whatever we do preaching the gospel to save the sinners, feeding the new believers that they may grow, perfecting the saints that they may do the work that the gifted persons can do to build up the Body of Christ, teaching the word and expounding the Bible that the saints may be edified both in the truth and life, training the saints that they may be built up in the Lord s service and work, and even establishing the ministry or the work itself is for the building up of the churches.
[50]  In such a practice as ours, we also stress that all the churches with all the saints should cooperate and be one with the ministry, so that the ministry will be strengthened and be more effective, that the churches with all the saints may benefit more in the ultimate goal for the Lord s interest, that is, to have His organic Body fully built up.
[51]  In February 1986 there was an elders training in Anaheim....At the end of that training, the brothers wrote a letter which, with perhaps two or three exceptions, we all signed....At the present time and for the past year and a half, we have regretted very much that we signed that letter, and even more, that such a letter was ever written.
[52]  We agreed in that letter that we would be identical with all the churches, that we would follow the ministry absolutely, and that we realized Brother Lee s leading was indispensable to our oneness.
[53]  In principle, according to the Lord s prayer in John 17 that all His believers would be one, the Lord is always pleased when we, the believers, are one in the things that are for His interest, and the Lord is surely offended if in anything that is for His interest we would not be one.
[54]  In this point John condemns a pervasive control exercised over the church.
[55]  Is there among us such a pervasive control exercised over the church, that is, a control that pervades all the churches?
[56]  In speaking for the Lord, I have only a sincere intention that through the Lord s word that I speak, sinners may be saved, saints may be edified and perfected, and the church may be built up for the carrying out of the New Testament economy of God.
[57]  Our training is to train mainly the young saints to grow in the divine life and in the divine truth, to fulfill the New Testament priesthood of the gospel of God, to feed the lambs of the Lord, to perfect the saints, and to build up the organic Body of Christ.
[58]  For keeping such a oneness according to the heart s desire of the Lord and according to the attributes of oneness that characterize the Body of Christ with the elements of the Divine Trinity Eph 4:3-6 , there is the need of the proper leadership of the elders in the church life and the genuine leadership of the ministers in the Lord s ministry.
[59]  And in our reception of other saints we are absolutely not narrow; rather, we are as broad as the Lord is in this matter, because we receive, as the Lord and God do Rom 14:3; 15:7 , every kind of genuine Christian who believes in the Lord Jesus Christ.
[60]  Concerning John s accusation in this item, we must distinguish Christianity from the Christians and the genuine church that is according to the divine revelation of the New Testament.
[61]  In Matthew 13 the Lord Jesus showed us clearly in His parables the difference between the wheat the real Christians and the tares the nominal Christians , the difference between meal fine flour Christ as food to God and men and leaven evil things such as heresies, false teachings, and evil practices , the difference between the mustard seed Christ as the seed of life and a big tree the abnormal development of the church Christianity , and the difference between the tares, leaven, and the abnormally developed tree, and the treasure hidden in the field the kingdom of the heavens and the pearl of great value the genuine church .
[62]  The nominal Christians, the heresies, the evil practices, and the abnormal development have transmuted the church, which is composed of the genuine Christians and Christ as the seed of life and the spiritual food to be the precious pearl and the hidden treasure, into Christianity, which is not acceptable to God.
[63]  Today, for the Lord s recovery, we must realize the difference between the genuine church, composed of the real Christians, and the abnormal Christianity.
[64]  Hence, in the Lord s recovery, quite often in teaching the saints we must present the truth concerning the genuine church of the Lord as His organic Body by pointing out the poor situation of today s Christianity.
[65]  According to the divine revelation in the holy Word, there is deputy authority in God s economy, both in the Old Testament, such as with Moses and the priests who taught the people the divine oracle, and in the New Testament, such as with the elders, who take care of the church 1 Tim 3:5; 5:17; Heb 13:17 , and the apostles, who establish the churches and teach the saints 2 Cor 10:8; 13:10; 1 Cor 4:21 .
[66]  If it is due to the saints independence, then the saints need to learn how to live the Body life; if it is due to the saints unwillingness to be one with the elders, then they need to learn more concerning how to be in one accord with the elders in the church life; if they are holding a different view than the church s view, then they need to learn more lessons that they may go along with the church or the churches in the Lord s recovery.
[67]  Regardless of what the fear is due to, it is always better to obey the elders in a church or the apostles among the churches at the same time as one obeys the Lord, rather than to obey only the Lord without caring for the elders in the church or the apostles among the churches.
