[1]  LIFE-STUDY OF DEUTERONOMY MESSAGE ONE AN INTRODUCTORY WORD Scripture Reading: Deut 1:1; 8:3; 30:14; 2 Tim 3:16a; John 1:1; Rom 10:8-9; Matt 4:4; John 6:63b, 57b
[2]  In this message we will give an introductory word to the life-study of Deuteronomy.
[3]  Deuteronomy is not only a conclusion of the Pentateuch; it is also a concluding word of the law.
[4]  The word is not only Christ as the word of God for man to receive as his life; the word is also Christ as food to man for man to take as his nourishment Deut 8:3; Matt 4:4; John 6:63b, 57b .
[5]  The central thought of Deuteronomy is that Christ is the Instructor and Leader of the people of God that they may be able to enter into the heavenly territory and participate in His riches.
[6]  LIFE-STUDY OF DEUTERONOMY MESSAGE TWO THE CRUCIAL POINTS
[7]  Before we consider the crucial points in the book of Deuteronomy, I would like to give a further word on Deuteronomy 30:11-14.
[8]  Verse 11 says, "This commandment which I am commanding you today, it is not too difficult for you, nor is it distant."
[9]  In Romans 10:7 Paul continues, "Or, Who will descend into the abyss?
[10]  That is, to bring Christ up from among the dead."
[11]  The first crucial point in Deuteronomy is that Moses as the spokesman of God was like an aged, loving father speaking to his children with much love and concern.
[12]  The nine crucial points in the book of Deuteronomy covered in the foregoing message reveal three persons: God, man, and Christ as the word.
[13]  In these nine points God is manifested, man is exposed, and Christ is presented.
[14]  The children of Israel were also formed, or constituted, into an army to journey with God and to fight with God Num 1 9 .
[15]  LIFE-STUDY OF DEUTERONOMY MESSAGE FOUR A REVIEW OF THE PAST 2 Scripture Reading: Deut 4:1-40
[16]  From Genesis to Revelation, the entire Bible does three things: it manifests God, exposes man, and unveils Christ.
[17]  Before considering further the matter of a review of the past, I would like to give an additional word on these three functions of the Bible.
[18]  In 3:23-29 we see that Moses was refused in the matter of entering into the God-promised good land and that Joshua was assigned to bring the people to possess the land as their inheritance.
[19]  LIFE-STUDY OF DEUTERONOMY MESSAGE FIVE DEUTERONOMY A BOOK CONCERNING CHRIST Scripture Reading: Deut 8:1-10; Matt 4:4; John 1:1, 14; Gal 2:20; 1 Cor 6:17b; 15:10; 2 Cor 13:14
[20]  In the foregoing messages we have covered three matters: an introductory word to the life-study of Deuteronomy, the crucial points in Deuteronomy, and the review of the past.
[21]  Before we turn in the next message to the lengthy section on the rehearsal of the law 4:44 26:19 , I would like to give a word regarding the Christ unveiled in Deuteronomy.
[22]  The vine typifies Christ as the sacrificing One who cheers God and man; the fig tree, the sweetness and satisfaction of Christ as our life supply; the pomegranate, the abundance and beauty of the life of Christ; the olive tree, Christ as the man filled with the Spirit and anointed with the Spirit as the oil of exultant joy; the animal life, Christ with His redeeming life; milk and honey, Christ in His richness and sweetness; stones, iron, and copper, Christ as the materials for building and fighting.
[23]  At this point, we need to consider God's economy and what God plans to do in His economy.
[24]  In His eternal economy God has planned to have Himself expressed, manifested, through man.
[25]  The book of Deuteronomy surely manifests God and exposes us.
[26]  This book manifests God as a God who is loving in His heart, righteous in His hand, and faithful in His mouth.
[27]  Furthermore, this book manifests God as the One who blesses us through His eyes.
[28]  In Galatians 2:20 Paul says, "It is no longer I who live, but Christ"; in 1 Corinthians 15:10 he says, "Not I, but the grace of God."
[29]  In the first part of this verse Paul tells us, "By the grace of God I am what I am."
[30]  This grace is the resurrected Christ becoming the life-giving Spirit to bring the processed Triune God in resurrection into us to be our life and life supply that we may live in resurrection.
[31]  The crucial matter that we need to realize is that God wants us to live, act, behave, work, and have our being in Christ, by Christ, with Christ, through Christ, and in oneness with Christ.
[32]  Before we begin to consider the rehearsal of the law, I would like to speak a word concerning the Divine Trinity, which is the basis for the revelation in the Bible.
[33]  This principle is that anything related to the Father, who is the source, is onefold; anything related to the Son, who is the course, is twofold; and anything related to the Spirit, who is the flow, the consummation, the totality, of the Triune God, is threefold.
[34]  In 6:1-3 Moses charged the children of Israel to keep the commandments, statutes, and judgments of God that they may live long, that it may go well with them, and that they may be greatly increased in the land flowing with milk and honey.
[35]  Verses 10 through 12 say, "When Jehovah your God brings you into the land which He swore to your fathers, to Abraham and to Isaac and to Jacob, to give you great and fine cities that you did not build, and houses full of all good things that you did not fill, and hewn cisterns that you did not hew, vineyards and olive groves that you did not plant, and you have eaten and are satisfied; be careful lest you forget Jehovah who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery."
[36]  In this message we will consider, as a part of the general advices and warnings, the rehearsal of the law in 7:1 8:20.
[37]  In 7:9-15 Moses wanted the people to realize that Jehovah their God is God, the faithful God who keeps covenant and lovingkindness to the thousandth generation with those who love Him and keep His commandments; that He would love them, bless them, and multiply them; that He would bless the fruit of their womb and the fruit of their ground, their grain, their new wine, their fresh oil, the offspring of their cattle, and the young of their flock; and that He would remove every sickness and those evil illnesses of Egypt from them.
[38]  "You shall remember all the way that Jehovah your God has led you these forty years in the wilderness in order to humble you and test you that He might know what was in your heart, whether you would keep His commandments or not.
[39]  "Therefore keep the commandments of Jehovah your God, walking in His ways and fearing Him" v. 6 . God has His ways as well as His commandments.
[40]  The children of Israel were to keep God's commandments, walk in His ways, and fear Him, for He was bringing them to a good land, a land of waterbrooks, of springs and of fountains, flowing forth in valleys and in mountains, a land of wheat, barley, vines, fig trees, pomegranates, olive trees with oil, and honey, a land in which they would eat bread without scarcity and in which they would not lack anything, a land whose stones were iron and from whose mountains they could mine copper vv.
[41]  "Be careful lest you forget Jehovah your God by not keeping His commandments, His judgments, and His statutes, which I am commanding you today" v. 11 . Today we should be careful lest we forget God by not keeping His Christ.
[42]  In verses 12 through 16 Moses continued his warning, telling the people to be careful, lest when they had eaten and were satisfied, and had built houses and dwelt in them, and their herd and their flock had multiplied, and their silver and their gold had multiplied, and all that they had had multiplied, their heart would be lifted up and they would forget Jehovah their God, who brought them out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery, who led them through the great and awesome wilderness and brought forth water for them out of flint rock, who fed them manna in the wilderness, that He might humble them and test them in order to do good for them in the end. Then Moses went on to warn the people not to say in their heart, "My strength and the might of my hand have gotten me this wealth" v. 17 . Instead, the people were to remember Jehovah their God, for it was He who gave them strength to gain wealth, so that He might establish His covenant v. 18 . Finally, Moses warned them that if they would forget Jehovah their God and go after other gods and serve them and bow down to them, they would surely perish vv.
[43]  In 9:3 Moses charged the children of Israel, saying, "Know therefore today that Jehovah your God is the One crossing over before you as a consuming fire; it is He who will destroy them and it is He who will subdue them before you, so that you may dispossess them and destroy them quickly, as Jehovah has said to you."
[44]  In 9:8 10:11 Moses rehearsed the story of the rebellion of the children of Israel in making the golden calf and worshipping it at the mount of God, as a solemn testimony against the children of Israel.
[45]  In 10:12-22 Moses charged the children of Israel concerning nine matters: fearing Jehovah their God, walking in all His ways, loving Him, serving Him with all their heart and all their soul, keeping His commandments and statutes for their good, circumcising the foreskin of their heart, not being stiff-necked any longer, holding fast to Him, and swearing by His name, who is their praise and their God.
[46]  The vision of the New Jerusalem reveals that we should take God as our unique way.
[47]  In the New Jerusalem there is just one street, which is of pure gold Rev 21:21 , signifying that the nature of God is our way.
[48]  The river of water of life proceeds out of the throne of God and of the Lamb and flows in the midst of the street Rev 22:1 .
[49]  This indicates that God is both our life and our way.
[50]  We take God as our life, and His life with His nature then becomes the way in which we walk.
[51]  In verses 26 through 28 Moses said, "See, I am setting before you today a blessing and a curse: the blessing, if you listen to the commandments of Jehovah your God, which I am commanding you today; and the curse, if you do not listen to the commandments of Jehovah your God and you turn aside from the way which I am commanding you today, to go after other gods whom you have not known."
[52]  Thus far, the rehearsal of the law has been somewhat general.
[53]  In Deuteronomy 12 we have a very particular matter the center for the worship of God.
[54]  This chapter strongly stresses that we must worship God at a definite center, at the place of His choice.
[55]  The children of Israel were to seek Jehovah and come unto the place which Jehovah their God would choose out of all their tribes to put His name, even unto His habitation with His altar Deut 12:5-6 .
[56]  Second, both in Deuteronomy 12 and in the New Testament, God's way to keep the oneness of His people is to have a place with His name, the unique name.
[57]  The name in which we gather for the worship of God is a matter of great importance.
[58]  LIFE-STUDY OF DEUTERONOMY MESSAGE ELEVEN GOD'S CHOICE THE DEFINITE
[59]  In this message I would like to give a further word on Moses' charge to the children of Israel concerning the way to worship God.
[60]  In the type in Deuteronomy 12, the children of Israel were required to come to a particular geographical location.
[61]  In Deuteronomy 12 we have a definite word on keeping the oneness of God's people.
[62]  In chapter thirteen, which we will consider in this message, we have an even more definite word a word concerning apostasy.
[63]  We need to be clear regarding the difference between teaching apostasy and being wrong in doctrine.
[64]  Someone may not be correct in his teaching about a certain doctrine, but this does not mean that he is apostate.
[65]  For example, suppose a brother in the Lord, a genuine believer in Christ, is somewhat mistaken in his teaching regarding the rapture.
[66]  We may say that he is wrong in doctrine, but we should not say that he is heretical or that he teaches apostasy, for he believes in the divine person of Christ and in His redemptive work.
[67]  He believes that Jesus Christ is the very God, that He was incarnated to become a man, that He died on the cross for our sins, that He resurrected from among the dead, and that He ascended to the heavens.
[68]  Instead of judging the believers with respect to such matters, we should receive them in love, for God has received them v. 3 . Furthermore, Paul says, "We who are strong ought to bear the weaknesses of those who are weak, and not to please ourselves" 15:1 . Then Paul goes on to say, "Wherefore receive one another, as Christ also received us to the glory of God" v. 7 . We should receive the believers not according to the way of eating or the keeping of days but according to Christ, who is the unique center and the all-embracing One.
[69]  Moses went on to tell the people not to listen to the words of that prophet or dreamer of dreams, "for Jehovah your God is testing you in order to know whether you love Jehovah your God with all your heart and with all your soul" v. 3 .
[70]  In verse 5 Moses said, "But that prophet or that dreamer of dreams shall be put to death, because he has advocated apostasy from Jehovah your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt and ransomed you from the house of slavery, in order to force you out of the way in which Jehovah your God has commanded you to walk.
[71]  LIFE-STUDY OF DEUTERONOMY MESSAGE THIRTEEN A WORD CONCERNING DIVISION AND APOSTASY Scripture Reading: Deut 12:1 13:18
[72]  In previous messages we have covered the general advices and warnings.
[73]  Some saints may feel that instead of rejecting the divisive ones, we should receive them and love them.
[74]  When some hear this word, they may say, "How can we tell who is divisive and who is not divisive?
[75]  LIFE-STUDY OF DEUTERONOMY MESSAGE FOURTEEN THE REHEARSAL OF THE LAW 7 Scripture Reading: Deut 14:3-21, 28-29; 26:12-15; 15:1-11
[76]  In the foregoing messages we covered the general advices and warnings 5:32 13:18 .
[77]  Several portions of Deuteronomy speak concerning aid to the needy 14:28-29; 26:12-15; 15:1-18; 23:15-16, 19-20; 24:6, 10-15, 17-22 .
[78]  The Release at the End of Every Seven Years
[79]  "This is the manner of the release: Every creditor shall release that which he has lent to his neighbor; he shall not exact it from his neighbor or his brother, for Jehovah's release has been proclaimed" v. 2 . However, there was a limitation to the heavenly communism: the children of Israel were to release their brothers only, not the foreigners v. 3 . If God's people released that which they had lent to their brothers, they would bring in God's blessing that there would be no poor among them vv.
[80]  "You must give to him, and your heart shall not be displeased when you give to him; for on account of this matter Jehovah your God will bless you in all your work and in all your undertakings" v. 10 . The children of Israel were to be happy after the giving was done, knowing that God would bless them.
[81]  In this message on the rehearsing of the general statutes and judgments, we will consider some further matters concerning aid to the needy.
[82]  "If your brother, a Hebrew man or woman, is sold to you, he shall serve you six years; but in the seventh year you shall set him free" v. 12 . The reason a Hebrew servant was to be set free after six years of service is that God is a God of rest.
[83]  In 23:15-16 Moses gave a word about taking care of an escaped slave.
[84]  An Israelite was not to make a brother pay interest on money, on food, or on anything on which one pays interest v. 19 . An Israelite could make a foreigner pay interest but was not to make a brother do so, in order that Jehovah his God might bless him in all his undertakings v. 20 . This was a matter involving not only an Israelite and his brother but also God, who is above all and sees everything.
[85]  When the children of Israel lent anything to their neighbor, they were not to enter his house in order to take his pledge v. 10 . Rather, they were to stand outside, and the borrower was to bring the pledge out to them v. 11 . These small points indicate that our God is detailed in His care for His people.
[86]  In this message we will consider those general statutes and judgments which are concerned with the worship of God.
[87]  After speaking about taking care of the needy ones, Moses came to the matter of taking care of God's need, a matter which concerns the worship of God.
[88]  "You shall eat before Jehovah your God, in the place where He will choose to cause His name to dwell, the tithe of your grain, of your new wine, and of your fresh oil and the firstborn of your herd and flock, that you may learn to fear Jehovah your God always" v. 23 . Here we see that the children of Israel did not have the right to offer their tithes at any place of their choice.
[89]  In 15:19-23 we see that the children of Israel were to worship God also by offering the firstborn males of the herd and of the flock.
[90]  "All firstborn males that are brought forth in your herd and flock you shall sanctify to Jehovah your God; you shall not do work with your firstborn ox, nor shall you shear your firstborn sheep" v. 19 . Here we see that the children of Israel could not use for their own purpose the firstborn of the herd and of the flock, which were to be sanctified to God.
[91]  Any animal having a blemish, lameness, or blindness was not to be sacrificed to Jehovah God v. 21 , for that was an abomination to Him 17:1 . Such animals could be eaten, except for the blood, in the place where the people lived 15:22-23 . From this we see that a certain portion was to be given to God in the place of His choice and enjoyed there with Him; however, other portions, having nothing to do with the worship of God, could be enjoyed by the people where they lived.
[92]  In Deuteronomy 16:21-22 the children of Israel were told to worship God by not having any mixture of idolatry.
[93]  Deuteronomy 23:21-23 speaks concerning worshipping God by keeping a vow to Him.
[94]  After the children of Israel had entered and possessed the good land as an inheritance, they were to offer to God some of the first of all the fruit of their land 26:1-11 .
[95]  "When you enter the land which Jehovah your God is giving to you as an inheritance and you possess it and dwell in it, you shall take some of the first of all the fruit of the earth which you shall bring from your land, which Jehovah your God is giving to you, and you shall put it in a basket and go to the place where Jehovah your God will choose to cause His name to dwell" vv.
[96]  The priest was to take the offering and place it before the altar of Jehovah their God v. 4 . Then the children of Israel were to respond and relate before Him their history, how Jehovah had rescued them from the Egyptians' oppression, delivering them out of Egypt, and had brought them to the good land, a land flowing with milk and honey, and how they had just brought the first of the fruit of the ground of the good land, which Jehovah their God had given them vv.
[97]  Then they were to place this fruit before Jehovah their God and bow down to Him v. 10b . They could not enjoy the first fruit of the land until they had offered it to God.
[98]  LIFE-STUDY OF DEUTERONOMY MESSAGE SEVENTEEN THE REHEARSAL OF THE LAW 10 Scripture Reading: Deut 16:18-20; 17:8-20; 19:15-21; 21:1-9
[99]  In this message on the rehearsing of the general statutes and judgments, we will begin to consider the matter of the divine government among the children of Israel 16:18-20; 17:8-20; 19:15-21; 21:1-9, 18-23; 22:13-30; 24:1-4, 7, 16; 25:1-3, 5-16 .
[100]  The portions of Deuteronomy which deal with the divine government are the word of God, not merely the word of Moses.
[101]  In 17:8-13 we have a word concerning the judgment of a complicated civil suit.
[102]  Actually, God does not like to see that there is a king among His people.
[103]  LIFE-STUDY OF DEUTERONOMY MESSAGE EIGHTEEN THE REHEARSAL OF THE LAW 11 Scripture Reading: Deut 21:18-23; 22:13-30
[104]  LIFE-STUDY OF DEUTERONOMY MESSAGE NINETEEN THE REHEARSAL OF THE LAW 12 Scripture Reading: Deut 24:7, 16; 25:1-3, 5-16
[105]  In this message we will consider the six remaining matters concerning the government among the people.
[106]  In 18:15-19 Moses spoke concerning Jehovah God's raising up of a Prophet the coming Christ like Moses for the children of Israel.
[107]  Acts 3:22 applies these verses to Christ, indicating that Christ is the Prophet promised by God to His people, the children of Israel.
[108]  The Prophet was to be from among their brothers v. 15a . This indicates that Christ as the coming Prophet would be human as well as divine, that He would be God incarnated to be a man, the God-man.
[109]  "I will raise up a Prophet for them from the midst of their brothers like you; and I will put My words in His mouth, and He will speak to them all that I command Him" v. 18 . This indicates that God would raise up this Prophet through the incarnation of Christ to speak the word of God John 1:14; 3:34; 7:16-17; Heb 1:2a . When the Lord Jesus came, He surely spoke God's word.
[110]  A false prophet was one who spoke a word presumptuously in God's name which God did not command him to speak or who spoke in the name of other gods v. 20a . Such a prophet was to be put to death v. 20b . When a prophet spoke in the name of Jehovah and the thing did not happen, that was the thing which Jehovah had not spoken v. 22 .
[111]  "You shall not move your neighbor's boundary marker, which your ancestors have set, in your inheritance, which you will inherit in the land which Jehovah your God is giving to you to possess" Deut 19:14 .
[112]  The moving of such a boundary marker was not allowed by the faithful God, who gave the children of Israel the good land to possess.
[113]  In this message we will consider three matters: the children of Israel going forth to battle against their enemies 20:1-20 , the marrying of a beautiful woman among the captives 21:10-14 , and the right of the firstborn son 21:15-17 .
[114]  When the children of Israel saw horses, chariots, and a people more numerous than they, they were not to fear them, for Jehovah their God was with them v. 1 . They could be assured that as along as God was with them, they would be victorious.
[115]  She was to dwell in that Israelite's house and mourn her father and mother for a full month v. 13b . Afterwards the Israelite was to marry her and be her husband, and she was to be a wife to him v. 13c . If after a time he did not delight in her, he was to let her go wherever she wished, but he was not to sell her for money nor deal with her as a slave, because he had humbled her v. 14 . God's dealing here is fair and very humane.
[116]  In this message we will cover the general statutes and judgments concerning taking care of others' interests, concerning mixtures of any kind, concerning the sparing of the producing animals, and concerning the losing of the right to enter the congregation of Jehovah.
[117]  Deuteronomy 22:5, 9-12 is concerned with mixtures of any kind.
[118]  Deuteronomy 22:6 and 7 and 25:4 deal with sparing the producing animals.
[119]  Ammonites and Moabites could not enter the congregation of Jehovah because they did not come to meet the children of Israel with bread and water in the way when the people were coming out of Egypt v. 4a . They were prohibited from entering the congregation of Jehovah also because they hired Balaam to curse the children of Israel v. 4b . Jehovah their God would not listen to Balaam, and He turned the curse into a blessing, for Jehovah loved them v. 5 . The children of Israel were not to seek the peace and the prosperity of the Ammonites and the Moabites all their days forever v. 6 .
[120]  LIFE-STUDY OF DEUTERONOMY MESSAGE TWENTY-THREE THE REHEARSAL OF THE LAW 16 Scripture Reading: Deut 23:9-14, 17-18, 24-25; 24:5, 8-9; 25:17-19; 26:16-19
[121]  In this message, the last on the rehearsal of the law, we will cover further general statutes and judgments.
[122]  In 24:5 we have a word concerning a man taking a new wife.
[123]  When a man took a new wife, he was not to go out with the army, nor was he to be charged with any duty.
[124]  That day the day Moses had finished the rehearsal of the law Jehovah their God was commanding the children of Israel to do these statutes and judgments, and they were to keep them and do them with all their heart and with all their soul v. 16 . On that day they had declared Jehovah to be their God and had also declared that they would walk in His ways and keep His statutes, His commandments, and His judgments and listen to His voice v. 17 . That declaration was actually a vow.
[125]  Furthermore, on that day Jehovah had declared them to be a people for His personal treasure, even as He promised them, and had declared that they would keep all His commandments v. 18 . Here we see that the condition for being God's personal treasure is that the people keep all His commandments.
[126]  God also declared that He would set the children of Israel high above all the nations, for praise, for a name, and for honor, and that they would be a holy people to Jehovah their God as He had spoken v. 19 .
[127]  LIFE-STUDY OF DEUTERONOMY MESSAGE TWENTY-FOUR WARNING IMPLYING GRACE 1 Scripture Reading: Deut 27
[128]  We have completed the section of Deuteronomy concerned with the rehearsal of the law 4:44 26:19 , and now we come to a new section 27:1 28:68 , which deals with the matter of warning and speaks about being cursed and blessed.
[129]  Upon the altar, which signifies the cross of Christ, the children of Israel were to offer up burnt offerings Christ to God v. 6b . The people were also to sacrifice peace offerings Christ and eat there and rejoice before Jehovah their God v. 7 . On the cross, Christ offered Himself to God as a burnt offering for God's satisfaction.
[130]  Moses, with the Levitical priests, spoke to all Israel that from that day they had become the people of Jehovah their God; therefore they were charged to listen to His voice and do His commandments and His statutes vv.
[131]  The ones who were cursed included the following: the man who makes an idol v. 15 ; the man who dishonors his parents v. 16 ; the man who moves his neighbor's boundary mark v. 17 ; the man who leads astray a blind man on the way v. 18 ; the man who distorts justice due a sojourner, an orphan, or a widow v. 19 ; the man who lies with his father's wife v. 20 ; the man who lies with an animal v. 21 ; the man who lies with his sister, his father's daughter, or his mother's daughter v. 22 ; the man who lies with his mother-in-law v. 23 ; the man who slays his neighbor secretly v. 24 ; the man who takes payment to slay someone of innocent blood v. 25 ; and the man who does not confirm all the words of this law by doing them v. 26 .
[132]  However, right beside the stones of the inscriptions of the commandments of God was the altar, where they could take Christ as their burnt offering to God for His satisfaction and take Christ as their burnt offering and peace offering to God for God's satisfaction and their enjoyment with God.
[133]  If the children of Israel listened diligently to the voice of Jehovah their God and were certain to do all His commandments, Jehovah their God would set them high above all the nations, and all the blessings would come upon them and overtake them 28:1-2 .
[134]  Jehovah would make His people the head and not the tail, and they would tend only upward and not downward, if they would listen to the commandments of Jehovah their God v. 13 . They were not to turn aside from His words to go after other gods to serve them v. 14 . Moses was very concerned that they might turn aside to other gods, to idols, and, in Deuteronomy, he repeatedly warned them not to do this.
[135]  If the children of Israel did not listen to the voice of Jehovah their God and were not certain to do all His commandments and His statutes, all the curses would come upon them and overtake them v. 15 .
[136]  All the curses that have befallen the children of Israel have carried out God's governmental dealings with them, so that eventually God would be able to accomplish His economy with them to prove that He is the very God who would not change in His will forever.
[137]  LIFE-STUDY OF DEUTERONOMY MESSAGE TWENTY-SIX CHRIST IN DEUTERONOMY
[138]  Before we come in the next message to the matter of the enactment of the covenant, I would like in this message to give a brief word concerning the Christ revealed in Deuteronomy.
[139]  Why was an altar built up next to the monument?
[140]  LIFE-STUDY OF DEUTERONOMY MESSAGE TWENTY-SEVEN THE ENACTMENT OF THE COVENANT Scripture Reading: Deut 29 30
[141]  After the rehearsal of the law and the word of warning with the blessings and the curses, God charged Moses to make a covenant with the new generation.
[142]  The former generation had received a covenant forty years prior at Horeb, but in chapters twenty-nine and thirty God charged Moses to enact another covenant with the new generation.
[143]  If while living among the nations, to whom Jehovah their God would drive them, the children of Israel and their children would return to Him and listen to His voice with all their heart and with all their soul, He would turn their captivity and be compassionate to them, and He would gather them from all the peoples among whom He had scattered them and bring them into the land which their fathers possessed and would do good for them and multiply them 30:1-5 .
[144]  The commandment which Moses was commanding the children of Israel was not too difficult for them, nor was it distant v. 11 . It was not in heaven that they should say, "Who will ascend to heaven for us and bring it to us that we may hear it and do it?" v. 12 . Nor was it across the sea that they should say, "Who will go across the sea for us and bring it to us that we may hear it and do it?" v. 13 . But the commandment was very near to them, even in their mouth and in their heart, that they might do it v. 14 . As we have pointed out, in Romans 10:6-10 Paul relates the word spoken here to Christ for the New Testament believers to receive for salvation.
[145]  Moses put before the children of Israel life and good, and death and evil v. 15 . If they obeyed the commandment of Jehovah their God to love Him, walk in His ways, and keep His commandments, statutes, and judgments, they would live and multiply, and He would bless them in the land which they would enter and possess v. 16 . But if their heart turned and they did not listen, but rather they were drawn away in worship to other gods and served them, they would surely perish vv.
[146]  Their days would not be extended upon the land which they would possess over the Jordan v. 18b . Moses called heaven and earth to witness against them: he had set before them life and death, blessing and curse v. 19a . He exhorted them to choose life that they and their seed might live, in loving Jehovah their God by listening to His voice and holding fast to Him; for He was their life and the length of their days, that they might dwell upon the land which He swore to their fathers to give them vv.
[147]  LIFE-STUDY OF DEUTERONOMY MESSAGE TWENTY-EIGHT THE FINAL EXHORTATIONS AND CHARGES Scripture Reading: Deut 31:1-13, 24-29
[148]  In this message we will consider the final exhortations and charges.
[149]  Although Moses had spoken so many things in the foregoing chapters, in chapter thirty-one he, as an elderly father concerned for his children, still had something more to say.
[150]  of the Tribes and Their Officers That He Might
[151]  Moses gathered to him all the elders of the tribes and their officers that he might speak these words and that he might call heaven and earth to witness against them v. 28 . He knew that after his death the children of Israel would utterly spoil themselves and turn away from the way that he had commanded them v. 29a . As a result, evil would come upon them in the latter days, for they would do what was evil in the sight of Jehovah so as to anger Him by their undertakings v. 29b .
[152]  LIFE-STUDY OF DEUTERONOMY MESSAGE TWENTY-NINE THE SONG OF MOSES Scripture Reading: Deut 31:14-23, 30; 32:1-47
[153]  Jehovah charged Moses to write this song and teach it to the children of Israel and put it in their mouth, that He might have this song as a witness against the children of Israel v. 19 . Jehovah would bring them into the land flowing with milk and honey, and they would eat and become satisfied and grow fat, and they would turn to other gods and serve them and despise Jehovah and break His covenant v. 20 . When many evils and troubles befell them, this song would respond as a witness before them because it would not be forgotten in the mouth of their seed; for He knew their intention before He brought them into the land v. 21 . So Moses wrote this song and taught it to the children of Israel v. 22 .
[154]  In 32:1-43 we have the contents of the song of Moses.
[155]  Moses said to them that they should set their heart on all these words and command their children to do all the words of this law v. 46 . He told them that it was not a matter too vain for them, because it was their life and by it they would extend their days upon the land into which they were crossing over the Jordan to possess it v. 47 .
[156]  LIFE-STUDY OF DEUTERONOMY MESSAGE THIRTY THE BLESSING OF MOSES
[157]  Moses blessed Joseph by saying that his land would be blessed by Jehovah with the choicest things of heaven, with the dew and with the deep waters that couch beneath; with the choicest of the crops of the sun and with the choicest of the yield of the moons; with the top of the ancient mountains and with the choicest things of the eternal hills; with the choicest things of the earth and the fullness thereof, and the favor of Him who dwelt in the bush vv.
